And how we make it through.MALIVE TIME OR DEAD TIME?
V ivr e sans temps mort. (Live without wasted time.)
— P A R I S I A N  P O L I T I C A L  S L O G A N
alcolm X was a criminal. He wasn’ t Malcolm X at the time—they
called him Detroit Red and he was a criminal opportunist who did a
little bit of everything. He ran numbers. He sold drugs. He worked as a
pimp. Then he moved up to armed robbery . He had his own bur glary gang,
which he ruled over with a combination of intimidation and boldness—
exploiting the fact that he did not seem afraid to kill or die.
Then, finally , he was arrested trying to fence an expensive watch he’d
stolen. He was carrying a gun at the time, though to his credit he made no
move to fight the of ficers who had trapped him. In his apartment, they
found jewelry , furs, an arsenal of guns, and all his bur glary tools.
He got ten years. It was February 1946. He was barely twenty-one years
old.
Even accounting for the shameful American racism and whatever
systematic legal injustices existed at the time, Malcolm X was guilty . He
deserved to go to jail. Who knows who else he would have hurt or killed
had he continued his escalating life of crime?
When your actions land you a lengthy prison sentence—rightly tried and
convicted—something has gone wrong. Y ou’ve failed not only yourself, but
the basic standards of society and morality . That was the case with
Malcolm.
So there he was in prison. A number . A body with roughly a decade to
sit in a cage.
He faced what Robert Greene—a man who sixty years later would find
his wildly popular books banned in many federal prisons—calls an “AliveT ime or Dead T ime” scenario. How would the seven years ultimately play
out? What would Malcolm do with this time?
According to Greene, there are two types of time in our lives: dead time,
when people are passive and waiting, and alive time, when people are
learning and acting and utilizing every second. Every moment of failure,
every moment or situation that we did not deliberately choose or control,
presents this choice: Alive time. Dead time.
Which will it be?
Malcolm chose alive time . He began to learn. He explored religion. He
taught himself to be a reader by checking out a pencil and the dictionary
from the prison library and not only consumed it from start to finish, but
copied it down longhand  from cover to cover . All these words he’d never
known existed before were transferred to his brain.
As he said later , “From then until I left that prison, in every free moment
I had, if I was not reading in the library , I was reading in my bunk.” He read
history , he read sociology , he read about religion, he read the classics, he
read philosophers like Kant and Spinoza. Later , a reporter asked Malcolm,
“What’ s your alma mater?” His one word answer: “Books.” Prison was his
college. He transcended confinement through the pages he absorbed. He
reflected that months passed without his even thinking about being detained
against his will. He had “never been so truly free in his life.”
Most people know what Malcolm X did after he got out of prison, but
they don’ t realize or understand how prison made that possible. How a mix
of acceptance, humility , and strength powered the transformation. They also
aren’ t aware of how common this is in history , how many figures took
seemingly terrible situations—a prison sentence, an exile, a bear market or
depression, military conscription, even being sent to a concentration camp
—and through their attitude and approach, turned those circumstances into
fuel for their unique greatness.
Francis Scott Key wrote the poem that became the national anthem of
the United States while trapped on a ship during a prisoner exchange in the
W ar of 1812. V iktor Frankl refined his psychologies of meaning and
suf fering during his ordeal in thr ee  Nazi concentration camps.
Not that these opportunities always come in such serious situations. The
author Ian Fleming was on bed rest and, per doctors’ orders, forbidden from
using a typewriter . They were worried he’d exert himself by writing anotherBond novel. So he created Chitty Chitty Bang Bang by hand instead. W alt
Disney made his decision to become a cartoonist while laid up after
stepping on a rusty nail.
Y es, it would feel much better in the moment to be angry , to be
aggrieved, to be depressed or heartbroken. When injustice or the
capriciousness of fate are inflicted on someone, the normal reaction is to
yell, to fight back, to resist. Y ou know the feeling: I don’ t want this. I want
______. I want it my way . This is shortsighted.
Think of what you have been putting of f. Issues you declined to deal
with. Systemic problems that felt too overwhelming to address. Dead time
is revived when we use it as an opportunity to do what we’ve long needed
to do.
As they say , this moment is not your life. But it is a moment in  your life.
How will you use it?
Malcolm could have doubled down on the life that brought him to
prison. Dead time isn’ t only dead because of sloth or complacency . He
could have spent those years becoming a better criminal, strengthening his
contacts, or planning his next score, but it still would have been dead time.
He might have felt  alive doing it, even as he was slowly killing himself.
“Many a serious thinker has been produced in prisons,” as Robert
Greene put it, “where we have nothing to do but think.” Y et sadly , prisons
—in their literal and figurative forms—have produced far more
degenerates, losers, and ne’er -do-wells. Inmates might have had nothing to
do but think; it’ s just that what they chose to think about made them worse
and not better .
That’ s what so many of us do when we fail or get ourselves into trouble.
Lacking the ability to examine ourselves, we reinvest our ener gy into
exactly the patterns of behavior that caused our problems to begin with.
It comes in many forms. Idly dreaming about the future. Plotting our
revenge. Finding refuge in distraction. Refusing to consider that our choices
are a reflection of our character . W e’d rather do basically anything else.
But what if we said: This is an opportunity for me. I am using it for my
purposes. I will not let this be dead time for me.
The dead time was when we were controlled by ego. Now—now we can
live.Who knows what you’re currently doing. Hopefully it’ s not a prison
term, even if it might feel like it. Maybe you’re sitting in a remedial high
school class, maybe you’re on hold, maybe it’ s a trial separation, maybe
you’re making smoothies while you save up money , maybe you’re stuck
waiting out a contract or a tour of duty . Maybe this situation is one totally
of your own making, or perhaps it’ s just bad luck.
In life, we all get stuck with dead time. Its occurrence isn’ t in our
control. Its use, on the other hand, is.
As Booker T . W ashington most famously put it, “Cast down your bucket
where you are.” Make use of what’ s around you. Don’ t let stubbornness
