to you?TAL W A YS ST A Y A STUDENT
Every man I meet is my master in some point, and in that I learn of him.
— R A L P H  W A L D O  E M E R S O N
he legend of Genghis Khan has echoed through history: A barbarian
conqueror , fueled by bloodlust, terrorizing the civilized world. W e
have him and his Mongol horde traveling across Asia and Europe,
insatiable, stopping at nothing to plunder , rape, and kill not just the people
who stood in their way , but the cultures they had built. Then, not unlike his
nomadic band of warriors, this terrible cloud simply disappeared from
history , because the Mongols built nothing that could last.
Like all reactionary , emotional assessments, this could not be more
wrong. For not only was Genghis Khan one of the greatest military minds
who ever lived, he was a perpetual student, whose stunning victories were
often the result of his ability to absorb the best technologies, practices, and
innovations of each new culture his empire touched.
In fact, if there is one theme in his reign and in the several centuries  of
dynastic rule that followed, it’ s this: appropriation. Under Genghis Khan’ s
direction, the Mongols were as ruthless about stealing and absorbing the
best of each culture they encountered as they were about conquest itself.
Though there were essentially no technological inventions, no beautiful
buildings or even great Mongol art, with each battle and enemy , their
culture learned and absorbed something new . Genghis Khan was not born a
genius. Instead, as one biographer put it, his was “a persistent cycle of
pragmatic learning, experimental adaptation, and constant revision driven
by his uniquely disciplined and focused will.”
He was the greatest conqueror the world ever knew because he was more
open to learning than any other conqueror has ever been.Khan’ s first powerful victories came from the reor ganization of his
military units, splitting his soldiers into groups of ten. This he stole from
neighboring T urkic tribes, and unknowingly converted the Mongols to the
decimal system. Soon enough, their expanding empire brought them into
contact with another “technology” they’d never experienced before: walled
cities. In the T angut raids, Khan first learned the ins and outs of war against
fortified cities and the strategies critical to laying siege, and quickly became
an expert. Later , with help from Chinese engineers, he taught his soldiers
how to build siege machines that could knock down city walls. In his
campaigns against the Jurched, Khan learned the importance of winning
hearts and minds. By working with the scholars and royal family of the
lands he conquered, Khan was able to hold on to and manage these
territories in ways that most empires could not. Afterward, in every country
or city he held, Khan would call for the smartest astrologers, scribes,
doctors, thinkers, and advisers—anyone who could aid his troops and their
ef forts. His troops traveled with interrogators and translators for precisely
this purpose.
It was a habit that would survive his death. While the Mongols
themselves seemed dedicated almost solely to the art of war , they put to
good use every craftsman, merchant, scholar , entertainer , cook, and skilled
worker they came in contact with. The Mongol Empire was remarkable for
its religious freedoms, and most of all, for its love of ideas and conver gence
of cultures. It brought lemons to China for the first time, and Chinese
noodles to the W est. It spread Persian carpets, German mining technology ,
French metalworking, and Islam. The cannon, which revolutionized
warfare, was said to be the resulting fusion of Chinese gunpowder , Muslim
flamethrowers, and European metalwork. It was Mongol openness to
learning and new ideas that brought them together .
As we first succeed, we will find ourselves in new situations, facing new
problems. The freshly promoted soldier must learn the art of politics. The
salesman, how to manage. The founder , how to delegate. The writer , how to
edit others. The comedian, how to act. The chef turned restaurateur , how to
run the other side of the house.
This is not a harmless conceit. The physicist John Wheeler , who helped
develop the hydrogen bomb, once observed that “as our island of
knowledge grows, so does the shore of our ignorance.” In other words, eachvictory and advancement that made Khan smarter also bumped him against
new situations he’d never encountered before. It takes a special kind of
humility to grasp that you know less, even as you know and grasp more and
more. It’ s remembering Socrates’ wisdom lay in the fact that he knew that
he knew next to nothing.
W ith accomplishment comes a growing pressure to pretend that we
know more than we do. T o pretend we already know everything. Scientia
infla (knowledge puf fs up). That’ s the worry and the risk—thinking that
we’re set and secure, when in reality understanding and mastery is a fluid,
continual process.
The nine-time Grammy– and Pulitzer Prize–winning jazz musician
W ynton Marsalis once advised a promising young musician on the mind-set
required in the lifelong study of music: “Humility engenders learning
because it beats back the arrogance that puts blinders on. It leaves you open
for truths to reveal themselves. Y ou don’ t stand in your own way . . . . Do
you know how you can tell when someone is truly humble? I believe there’ s
one simple test: because they consistently observe and listen, the humble
improve. They don’ t assume, ‘I know the way .’”
No matter what you’ve done up to this point, you better still be a student.
If you’re not still learning, you’re already dying.
It is not enough only to be a student at the beginning. It is a position that
one has to assume for life. Learn from everyone and everything.  From the
people you beat, and the people who beat you, from the people you dislike,
even from your supposed enemies. At every step and every juncture in life,
there is the opportunity to learn—and even if the lesson is purely remedial,
we must not let ego block us from hearing it again.
T oo often, convinced of our own intelligence, we stay in a comfort zone
that ensures that we never feel stupid (and are never challenged to learn or
reconsider what we know). It obscures from view various weaknesses in
our understanding, until eventually it’ s too late to change course. This is
where the silent toll is taken.
Each of us faces a threat as we pursue our craft. Like sirens on the rocks,
ego sings a soothing, validating song—which can lead to a wreck. The
second we let the ego tell us we have graduated , learning grinds to a halt.
That’ s why Frank Shamrock said, “Always stay  a student.” As in, it never
ends.The solution is as straightforward as it is initially uncomfortable: Pick up
a book on a topic you know next to nothing about. Put yourself in rooms
where you’re the least knowledgeable person. That uncomfortable feeling,
that defensiveness that you feel when your most deeply held assumptions
are challenged—what about subjecting yourself to it deliberately ? Change
your mind. Change your surroundings.
An amateur is defensive. The professional finds learning (and even,
occasionally , being shown up) to be enjoyable; they like being challenged
and humbled, and engage in education as an ongoing and endless process.
Most military cultures—and people in general—seek to impose values
and control over what they encounter . What made the Mongols dif ferent
was their ability to weigh each situation objectively , and if need be, swap
out previous practices for new ones. All great businesses start this way , but
then something happens. T ake the theory of disruption, which posits that at
some point in time, every industry will be disrupted by some trend or
innovation that, despite all the resources in the world, the incumbent
interests will be incapable of responding to. Why is this? Why can’ t
businesses change and adapt?
A lar ge part of it is because they lost the ability to learn. They stopped
being students. The second this happens to you, your knowledge becomes
fragile.
The great manager and business thinker Peter Drucker says that it’ s not
enough simply to want to learn. As people progress, they must also
understand how  they learn and then set up processes to facilitate this
continual education. Otherwise, we are dooming ourselves to a sort of self-
