discipline rather than disposition.IAL W A YS LOVE
And why should we feel anger at the world?
As if the world would notice!
— E U R I P I D E S
n 1939, a young prodigy named Orson W elles was given one of the most
unheard-of deals in Hollywood history . He could write, act, and direct in
two films of his choosing for RKO, a major movie studio. For his first
picture, he decided to tell the story of a mysterious newspaper baron who
became a prisoner of his enormous empire and lifestyle.
W illiam Randolph Hearst, the infamous media magnate, decided that this
movie was based on his life and, more important, that it did so of fensively .
He then began, and initially succeeded in, an all-consuming campaign to
destroy one of the greatest films of all time.
Here’ s what’ s so interesting about this. First, Hearst most likely never
even saw the movie so he had no idea what was actually in it. Second, it
wasn’ t intended to be about him—or at least solely about him. (As far as we
know , the character Charles Foster Kane was an amalgam of several
historical figures including Samuel Insull and Robert McCormick; the
movie was inspired by two similar portraits of power by Charlie Chaplin
and Aldous Huxley; and it wasn’ t supposed to vilify , but to humanize.)
Third, Hearst was one of the richest men in the world at the time, and at
seventy-eight, near the end of his life. Why would he spend so much time
on something as inconsequential as a fictional movie by a first-time
director? Fourth, it was his campaign to stop it that secured the movie’ s
place in popular lore and made it clear the extent to which his drive to
control and manipulate would go. Ironically , he cemented his own legacy as
a reviled American figure more than any critic ever could have.Thus, the paradox of hate and bitterness. It accomplishes almost exactly
the opposite of what we hope it does. In the Internet age, we call this the
Streisand ef fect (named after a similar attempt by the singer and actress
Barbra Streisand, who tried to legally remove a photo of her home from the
W eb. Her actions backfired and far more people saw it than would have had
she left the issue alone.) Attempting to destroy something out of hate or ego
often ensures that it will be preserved and disseminated forever .
The lengths that Hearst went to were absurd. He sent his most influential
and powerful gossip columnist, Louella Parsons, to the studio to demand a
screening. Based on her feedback, he decided he would do everything in his
power to block it from being made public. He issued a directive that none of
his newspapers were to make any mention of any RKO film—the company
producing Citizen Kane — period. (More than a decade later , this ban still
applied to W elles for all Hearst papers.) Hearst’ s papers began exploring
negative stories about W elles and his private life. His gossip columnist
threatened to do the same to each of the RKO board members. Hearst also
made threats to the movie industry as a whole, as a way of turning other
studio heads against the picture. An $800,000 of fer was made for the rights
to the film so that it might be burned or destroyed. Most theater chains were
pressured into refusing to show it, and no ads for it were allowed in any
Hearst-owned properties. Hearst sympathizers began reporting rumors
about W elles to various authorities, and in 1941, J. Edgar Hoover ’ s FBI
opened a file on him.
The result was that the movie failed commercially . It took years for it to
find its place in the culture. Only at great expense and with great exertion,
was Hearst able to hold it back.
W e all have stuf f that pisses us of f. The more successful or powerful we
are, the more there will be that we think we need to protect in terms of our
legacy , image, and influence. If we’re not careful, however , we can end up
wasting an incredible amount of time trying to keep the world from
displeasing or disrespecting us.
It is a sobering thought to consider for a moment all the needless death
and needless waste inflicted over the eons by angry men or aggrieved
women on other people, on society , and on themselves. Over what?
Reasons that can hardly be remembered.Y ou know what is a better response to an attack or a slight or something
you don’ t like? Love. That’ s right, love . For the neighbor who won’ t turn
down the music. For the parent that let you down. For the bureaucrat who
lost your paperwork. For the group that rejects you. For the critic who
attacks you. The former partner who stole your business idea. The bitch or
the bastard who cheated on you. Love.
Because, as the song lyrics go, “hate will get you every time.”
Okay , maybe love is too much to ask for whatever it is that you’ve had
done to you. Y ou could at the very least try to let it go. Y ou could try to
shake your head and laugh about it.
Otherwise the world will witness another example of a timeless and sad
pattern: Rich, powerful person becomes so isolated and delusional that
when something happens contrary to his wishes, he becomes consumed by
it. The same drive that made him great is suddenly a great weakness. He
turns a minor inconvenience into a massive sore. The wound festers,
becomes infected, and can even kill him.
This is what propelled Nixon forward and then, sadly , downward.
Reflecting on his own exile, he later acknowledged that his lifelong image
of himself as a scrappy fighter battling a hostile world was his undoing.
He’d surrounded himself with other such “tough guys.” People for get
Nixon was reelected by a landslide  after W ater gate broke .  He just couldn’ t
help himself—he kept fighting, he persecuted reporters, and he lashed out at
everyone he felt had slighted or doubted him. It’ s what continued to feed
the story and ultimately sank him. Like many such people, he ended up
doing more damage to himself than anyone else could. The root of it was
his hatefulness and his anger , and even being the most powerful leader in
the free world couldn’ t change it.
It doesn’ t need to be like that. Booker T . W ashington tells an anecdote
told to him by Frederick Douglass, about a time he was traveling and was
asked to move and ride in the baggage car because of his race. A white
supporter rushed up to apologize for this horrible of fense. “I am sorry , Mr .
Douglass, that you have been degraded in this manner ,” the person said.
Douglass would have none of that. He wasn’ t angry . He wasn’ t hurt. He
replied with great fervor: “They cannot degrade Frederick Douglass. The
soul that is within me no man can degrade. I am not the one that is beingdegraded on account of this treatment, but those who are inflicting it upon
me.”
Certainly , this is an incredibly dif ficult attitude to maintain. It’ s far easier
to hate. It’ s natural to lash out.
Y et we find that what defines great leaders like Douglass is that instead
of hating their enemies, they feel a sort of pity and empathy for them. Think
of Barbara Jordan at the 1992 Democratic National Convention proposing
an agenda of “ . . . love. Love. Love. Love.” Think of Martin Luther King
Jr ., over and over again, preaching that hate was a burden and love was
freedom. Love was transformational, hate was debilitating. In one of his
most famous sermons, he took it further: “W e begin to love our enemies and
love those persons that hate us whether in collective life or individual life
by looking at ourselves.” W e must strip ourselves of the ego that protects
and suf focates us, because, as he said, “Hate at any point is a cancer that
gnaws away at the very vital center of your life and your existence. It is like
eroding acid that eats away the best and the objective center of your life.”
T ake inventory for a second. What do you dislike? Whose name fills you
with revulsion and rage? Now ask: Have these strong feelings really helped
you accomplish anything ?
T ake an even wider inventory . Where has hatred and rage ever really
gotten anyone ?
Especially because almost universally , the traits or behaviors that have
pissed us of f in other people—their dishonesty , their selfishness, their
laziness—are hardly going to work out well for them in the end. Their ego
and shortsightedness contains its own punishment.
The question we must ask for ourselves is: Are we going to be miserable
just because other people are?
Consider how Orson W elles responded to the multidecade campaign by
Hearst. According to his own account, he bumped into Hearst in an elevator
on the night of the movie’ s premiere—the very one that Hearst had
deployed massive resources to prevent and destroy . Do you know what he
did? He invited Hearst to come. When Hearst declined, W elles joked that
Charles Foster Kane surely would have accepted.
It took a very long time for W elles’ s genius in that movie to finally be
acknowledged by the rest of the world. No matter , W elles soldiered on,
making other movies and producing other fantastic art. By all accounts, helived a fulfilling and happy life. Eventually , Citizen Kane  secured its place
in the forefront of cinematic history . Seventy years after the movie’ s debut,
it was finally played at Hearst Castle at San Simeon, which is now a state
park.
The events he endured weren’ t exactly fair , but at least he didn’ t let it
ruin his life. As W elles’ s girlfriend of twenty-plus years said in his eulogy ,
referring not just to Hearst, but to every slight he ever received in his long
career in a notoriously ruthless industry , “I promise you it didn’ t make him
bitter .” In other words, he never became like Hearst.
Not everyone is capable of responding that way . At various points in our
lives, we seem to have dif ferent capacities for for giveness and
understanding. And even when some people are able to carry on, they carry
with them a needless load of resentment. Remember Kirk Hammett, who
suddenly became the guitarist in Metallica? The man they kicked out to
make room for him, Dave Mustaine, went on to form another band,
Megadeth. Even amidst his own unbelievable success, he was eaten up with
rage and hatred over the way he’d been treated those many years before. It
drove him to addiction and could have killed him. It was eighteen years
until he was able to even begin to process it, and said it still felt like
yesterday that he’d been hurt and rejected. When you hear him tell it, as he
did once on camera to his former bandmates, it sounds like he ended up
living under a bridge. In reality , the man sold millions of records, produced
great music, and lived the life of a rock star .
W e have all felt this pain—and to quote his lyrics, “smile[d] its
blacktooth grin.” This obsession with the past, with something that
someone did or how things should have been, as much as it hurts, is ego
embodied. Everyone else has moved on, but you can’ t, because you can’ t
see anything but your own way . Y ou can’ t conceive of accepting that
someone could hurt you, deliberately or otherwise. So you hate.
In failure or adversity , it’ s so easy to hate. Hate defers blame. It makes
someone else responsible. It’ s a distraction too; we don’ t do much else
when we’re busy getting revenge or investigating the wrongs that have
supposedly been done to us.
Does this get us any closer to where we want to be? No. It just keeps us
where we are—or worse, arrests our development entirely . If we are alreadysuccessful, as Hearst was, it tarnishes our legacy and turns sour what should
be our golden years.
Meanwhile, love is right there. Egoless, open, positive, vulnerable,
peaceful, and productive.IFOR EVER YTHING THA T COMES NEXT , EGO IS THE
ENEMY  . . .
I don’ t like work—no man does—but I like what is in the work—the chance to find
yourself.
— J O S E P H  C O N R A D
n W illiam Manchester ’ s epic biography of the life of W inston Churchill,
the middle volume—a third of the set—is titled Alone.  For a full eight
years, Churchill stood more or less by himself against his shortsighted
peers, against the rising threat of fascism, even among the W est.
But eventually , he triumphed again. And faced adversity again. And was
vindicated again.
Katharine Graham stood alone as she took over her family’ s newspaper
empire. Her son, Donald Graham, must have felt similar pressure as he
sought to preserve the company during the dramatic declines of the industry
in the mid-2000s. Both made it through. So can you.
There is no way around it: W e will experience dif ficulty . W e will feel the
touch of failure. As Benjamin Franklin observed, those who “drink to the
bottom of the cup must expect to meet with some of the dregs.”
But what if those dregs weren’ t so bad? As Harold Geneen put it,
“People learn from their failures. Seldom do they learn anything from
success.” It’ s why the old Celtic saying tells us, “See much, study much,
suf fer much, that is the path to wisdom.”
What you face right now could, should, and can be such a path.
W isdom or ignorance? Ego is the swing vote.
Aspiration leads to success (and adversity). Success creates its own
adversity (and, hopefully , new ambitions). And adversity leads to aspiration
and more success. It’ s an endless loop.All of us exist on this continuum. W e occupy dif ferent places on it at
various points in our lives. But when we do fail, it sucks. No question.
Whatever is next for us, we can be sure of one thing we’ll want to avoid.
Ego. It makes all the steps hard, but failure is the one it will make
permanent. Unless we learn, right here and right now , from our mistakes.
Unless we use this moment as an opportunity to understand ourselves and
our own mind better , ego will seek out failure like true north.
All great men and women went through dif ficulties to get to where they
are, all of them made mistakes. They found within those experiences some
benefit—even if it was simply the realization that they were not infallible
and that things would not always go their way . They found that self-
awareness was the way out and through—if they hadn’ t, they wouldn’ t have
gotten better and they wouldn’ t have been able to rise again.
Which is why we have their mantra to guide us, so that we can survive
and thrive in every phase of our journey . It is simple (though, as always,
never easy).
Not to aspir e or seek out of ego.
T o have success without ego.
