W ell, here we are. Let’ s get to it.A S P I R E
Here, we are setting out to do something. W e have a goal, a calling, a new beginning. Every
great journey begins here—yet far too many of us never reach our intended destination. Ego
more often than not is the culprit. W e build ourselves up with fantastical stories, we pretend
we have it all figured out, we let our star burn bright and hot only to fizzle out, and we have
no idea why . These are symptoms of ego, for which humility and reality are the cure.
S
He is a bold sur geon, they say , whose hand does not tremble when he performs an
operation upon his own person; and he is often equally bold who does not hesitate to
pull of f the mysterious veil of self-delusion, which covers from his view the
deformities of his own conduct.
— A D A M  S M I T H
ometime around the year 374 B . C . , Isocrates, one of the most well-
known teachers and rhetoricians in Athens, wrote a letter to a young
man named Demonicus. Isocrates had been a friend of the boy’ s recently
deceased father and wanted to pass on to him some advice on how to follow
his father ’ s example.
The advice ranged from practical to moral—all communicated in what
Isocrates described as “noble maxims.” They were, as he put it, “precepts
for the years to come.”
Like many of us, Demonicus was ambitious, which is why Isocrates
wrote him, because the path of ambition can be dangerous. Isocrates began
by informing the young man that “no adornment so becomes you as
modesty , justice, and self-control; for these are the virtues by which, as all
men are agreed, the character of the young is held in restraint.” “Practice
self-control,” he said, warning Demonicus not to fall under the sway of
“temper , pleasure, and pain.” And “abhor flatterers as you would deceivers;
for both, if trusted, injure those who trust them.”
He wanted him to “Be af fable in your relations with those who approach
you, and never haughty; for the pride of the arrogant even slaves can hardly
endure” and “Be slow in deliberation, but be prompt to carry out your
resolves” and that the “best thing which we have in ourselves is good
judgment.” Constantly train your intellect, he told him, “for the greatest
thing in the smallest compass is a sound mind in a human body .”
Some of this advice might sound familiar . Because it made its way over
the next two thousand years to W illiam Shakespeare, who often warned
about ego run amok. In fact, in Hamlet , using this very letter as his model,Shakespeare puts Isocrates’ words in the mouth of his character Polonius in
a speech to his son, Laertes. The speech, if you happen to have heard it,
wraps up with this little verse.
This above all: to thine own self be true,
And it must follow , as the night the day ,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Far ewell. My blessing season this in thee!
As it happened, Shakespeare’ s words also made their way to a young
United States military of ficer named W illiam T ecumseh Sherman, who
would go on to become perhaps this country’ s greatest general and strategic
thinker . He may never have heard of Isocrates, but he loved the play and
often quoted this very speech.
Like Demonicus’, Sherman’ s father died when he was very young. Like
Demonicus, he was taken under the wing of a wise, older man, in this case
Thomas Ewing, a soon-to-be U.S. senator and friend of Sherman’ s father ,
who adopted the young boy and raised him as his own.
What’ s interesting about Sherman is that despite his connected father ,
almost no one would have predicted much more than regional
accomplishments—least of all that he would one day need to take the
unprecedented step of r efusing the pr esidency of the United States . Unlike a
Napoleon, who bursts upon the scene from nowhere and disappears in
failure just as quickly , Sherman’ s ascent was a slow and gradual one.
He spent his early years at W est Point, and then in the army . For his first
few years in service, Sherman traversed nearly the entire United States on
horseback, slowly learning with each posting. As the rumblings of Civil
W ar broke out, Sherman made his way east to volunteer his services and he
was shortly put to use at the Battle of Bull Run, a rather disastrous Union
defeat. Benefiting from a dire shortage of leadership, Sherman was
promoted to brigadier general and was summoned to meet with President
Lincoln and his top military adviser . On several occasions, Sherman freely
strategized and planned with the president, but at the end of his trip, he
made one strange request; he’d accept his new promotion only with the
assurance that he’d not  have to assume superior command. W ould Lincolngive him his word on that? W ith every other general asking for as much
rank and power as possible, Lincoln happily agreed.
At this point in time, Sherman felt more comfortable as a number two.
He felt he had an honest appreciation for his own abilities and that this role
best suited him. Imagine that—an ambitious person turning down a chance
to advance in responsibilities because he actually wanted to be ready for
them. Is that really so crazy?
Not that Sherman was always the perfect model of restraint and order .
Early in the war , tasked with defending the state of Kentucky with
insuf ficient troops, his mania and tendency to doubt himself combined in a
wicked way . Ranting and raving about being undersupplied, unable to get
out of his own head, paranoid about enemy movements, he broke form and
spoke injudiciously to several newspaper reporters. In the ensuing
controversy , he was temporarily recalled from his command. It took weeks
of rest for him to recover . It was one of a few nearly catastrophic moments
in his otherwise steadily ascendant career .
It was after this brief stumble—having learned from it—that Sherman
truly made his mark. For instance, during the siege at Fort Donelson,
Sherman technically held a senior rank to General Ulysses S. Grant. While
the rest of Lincoln’ s generals fought amongst themselves for personal
power and recognition, Sherman waived his rank, choosing to cheerfully
support and reinforce Grant instead of issuing orders. This is your show ,
Sherman told him in a note accompanying a shipment of supplies; call upon
me for any assistance I can provide. T ogether , they won one of the Union’ s
first victories in the war .
Building on his successes, Sherman began to advocate for his famous
march to the sea—a strategically bold and audacious plan, not born out of
some creative genius but rather relying on the exact topography he had
scouted and studied as a young of ficer in what had then seemed like a
pointless backwater outpost.
Where Sherman had once been cautious, he was now confident. But
unlike so many others who possess great ambition, he earned  this opinion.
As he carved a path from Chattanooga to Atlanta and then Atlanta to the
sea, he avoided traditional battle after traditional battle. Any student of
military history can see how the exact same invasion, driven by ego instead
of a strong sense of purpose, would have had a far dif ferent ending.His realism allowed him to see a path through the South that others
thought impossible. His entire theory of maneuver warfare rested on
deliberately avoiding frontal assaults or shows of strength in the form of
pitched battles, and ignoring criticism designed to bait a reaction. He paid
no notice and stuck to his plan.
By the end of the war , Sherman was one of the most famous men in
America, and yet he sought no public of fice, had no taste for politics, and
wished simply to do his job and then eventually retire. Dismissing the
incessant praise and attention endemic to such success, he wrote as a
warning to his friend Grant, “Be natural and yourself and this glittering
flattery will be as the passing breeze of the sea on a warm summer day .”
One of Sherman’ s biographers summarized the man and his unique
accomplishments in a remarkable passage. It is why he serves as our model
in this phase of our ascent.
Among men who rise to fame and leadership two types are
recognizable—those who are born with a belief in themselves and
those in whom it is a slow growth dependent on actual achievement.
T o the men of the last type their own success is a constant surprise,
and its fruits the more delicious, yet to be tested cautiously with a
haunting sense of doubt whether it is not all a dream. In that doubt
lies true modesty , not the sham of insincere self-depreciation but the
modesty of “moderation,” in the Greek sense. It is poise, not pose.
One must ask: if your belief in yourself is not  dependent on actual
achievement, then what is it dependent on? The answer , too often when we
are just setting out, is nothing . Ego. And this is why we so often see
precipitous rises followed by calamitous falls.
So which type of person will you be?
Like all of us, Sherman had to balance talent and ambition and intensity ,
especially when he was young. His victory in this struggle was lar gely why
he was able to manage the life-altering success that eventually came his
way .
This probably all sounds strange. Where Isocrates and Shakespeare
wished us to be self-contained, self-motivated, and ruled by principle, mostof us have been trained to do the opposite. Our cultural values almost try to
make us dependent on validation, entitled, and ruled by our emotions. For a
generation, parents and teachers have focused on building up everyone’ s
self-esteem. From there, the themes of our gurus and public figures have
been almost exclusively aimed at inspiring, encouraging, and assuring us
that we can do whatever we set our minds to.
In reality , this makes us weak. Y es, you, with all your talent and promise
as a boy wonder or a girl-who’ s-going-places. W e take it for granted that
you have promise. It’ s why you’ve landed in the prestigious university you
now attend, why you’ve secured the funding you have for your business,
why you’ve been hired or promoted, why whatever opportunity you now
have has fallen into your lap. As Irving Berlin put it, “T alent is only the
starting point.” The question is: W ill you be able to make the most of it? Or
will you be your own worst enemy? W ill you snuf f out the flame that is just
getting going?
What we see in Sherman was a man deeply tied and connected to reality .
He was a man who came from nothing and accomplished great things,
without ever feeling that he was in someway entitled  to the honors he
received. In fact, he regularly and consistently deferred to others and was
more than happy to contribute to a winning team, even if it meant less credit
or fame for himself. It’ s sad to think that generations of young boys learned
about Pickett’ s glorious cavalry char ge, a Confederate char ge that failed,
but the model of Sherman as a quiet, unglamorous realist is for gotten, or
worse, vilified.
One might say that the ability to evaluate one’ s own ability is the most
important skill of all. W ithout it, improvement is impossible. And certainly
ego makes it dif ficult every step of the way . It is certainly more pleasurable
to focus on our talents and strengths, but where does that get us? Arrogance
and self-absorption inhibit growth. So does fantasy and “vision.”
In this phase, you must practice seeing yourself with a little distance,
cultivating the ability to get out of your own head. Detachment is a sort of
natural ego antidote. It’ s easy  to be emotionally invested and infatuated
with your own work. Any and every narcissist can do that. What is rare is
not raw talent, skill, or even confidence, but humility , diligence, and self-
awareness.For your work to have truth in it, it must come from truth. If you want to
be more than a flash in the pan, you must be prepared to focus on the long
term.
W e will learn that though we think  big, we must act and live small in
order to accomplish what we seek. Because we will be action  and education
focused, and for go validation and status, our ambition will not be grandiose
but iterative—one foot in front of the other , learning and growing and
putting in the time.
W ith their aggression, intensity , self-absorption, and endless self-
promotion, our competitors don’ t realize how they jeopardize their own
ef forts (to say nothing of their sanity). W e will challenge the myth of the
self-assured genius for whom doubt and introspection is foreign, as well as
challenge the myth of pained, tortured artist who must sacrifice his health
for his work. Where they are both divorced from reality and divorced from
other people, we will be deeply connected, aware, and learning from all of
it.
Facts are better than dreams, as Churchill put it.
Although we share with many others a vision  for greatness, we
understand that our path  toward it is very dif ferent from theirs. Following
Sherman and Isocrates, we understand that ego is our enemy on that
journey , so that when we do achieve our success, it will not sink us but
