T o be or to do—life is a constant roll call.IBECOME A STUDENT
Let No Man’ s Ghost Come Back to Say My T raining Let Me Down.
— S I G N  I N  T H E  N E W  Y O R K  F I R E  D E P A R T M E N T  T R A I N I N G  A C A D E M Y
n April in the early 1980s, a single day became one guitarist’ s nightmare
and became another ’ s dream, and dream job. W ithout notice, members of
the under ground metal band Metallica assembled before a planned
recording session in a decrepit warehouse in New Y ork and informed their
guitarist Dave Mustaine he was being thrown out of the group. W ith few
words, they handed him a bus ticket back to San Francisco.
That same day , a decent young guitarist, Kirk Hammett, barely in his
twenties and member of a band called Exodus, was given the job. Thrown
right into a new life, he performed his first show with the band a few days
later .
One would assume that this was the moment Hammett had been waiting
for his whole life. Indeed it was. Though only known in small circles at the
time, Metallica was a band that seemed destined to go places. Their music
had already begun to push the boundaries of the genre of thrash metal, and
cult stardom had already begun. W ithin a few short years, it would be one
of the biggest bands in the world, eventually selling more than 100 million
albums.
It was around this time that Kirk came to what must have been a
humbling realization—that despite his years of playing and being invited to
join Metallica, he wasn’ t as good as he’d like to be. At his home in San
Francisco, he looked for a guitar teacher . In other words, despite joining his
dream group and quite literally turning professional, Kirk insisted that he
needed more instruction—that he was still a student. The teacher he soughtout had a reputation for being a teacher ’ s teacher , and for working with
musical prodigies like Steve V ai.
Joe Satriani, the man Hammett chose as his instructor , would himself go
on to become known as one of the best guitar players of all time and sell
more than 10 million records of his unique, virtuosic music. T eaching out of
a small music shop in Berkeley , Satriani’ s playing style made him an
unusual choice for Hammett. That was the point—Kirk wanted to learn
what he didn’ t know , to firm up his understanding of the fundamentals so
that he might continue exploring this new genre of music he now had a
chance to pursue.
Satriani makes it clear where Hammett was lacking—it wasn’ t talent,
certainly . “The main thing with Kirk . . . was he was a really good guitar
player when he walked in the door . He was already playing lead guitar . . .
he was already shredding. He had a great right hand, he knew most of his
chords, he just didn’ t learn how to play in an environment where he learned
all the names and how to connect everything together .”
That didn’ t mean that their sessions were some sort of fun study group.
In fact, Satriani explained that what separated Hammett from the others was
his willingness to endure the type of instruction they wouldn’ t. “He was a
good student. Many of his friends and contemporaries would storm out
complaining thinking I was too harsh a teacher .”
Satriani’ s system was clear: that there would be weekly lessons, that
these lessons must be learned, and if they weren’ t, that Hammett was
wasting everyone’ s time and needn’ t bother to come back. So for the next
two years Kirk did as Satriani required, returning every week for objective
feedback, judgment, and drilling in technique and musical theory for the
instrument he would soon be playing in front of thousands, then tens of
thousands, and then literally hundreds of thousands of people. Even after
that two-year study period, he would bring to Satriani licks and rif fs he’d
been working on with the band, and learned to pare down the instinct for
mor e , and hone his ability to do more with fewer notes, and to focus on
feeling  those notes and expressing them accordingly . Each time, he
improved as a player and as an artist.
The power of being a student is not just that it is an extended period of
instruction, it also places the ego and ambition in someone else’ s hands.
There is a sort of ego ceiling imposed—one knows that he is not better thanthe “master” he apprentices under . Not even close. Y ou defer to them, you
subsume yourself. Y ou cannot fake or bullshit them. An education can’ t be
“hacked”; there are no shortcuts besides hacking it  every single day . If you
don’ t, they drop you.
W e don’ t like thinking that someone is better than us. Or that we have a
lot left to learn. W e want to be done. W e want to be ready . W e’re busy and
overburdened .  For this reason, updating your appraisal of your talents in a
downward direction is one of the most dif ficult things to do in life—but it is
almost always a component of mastery . The pretense of knowledge is our
most dangerous vice, because it prevents us from getting any better .
Studious self-assessment is the antidote.
The result, no matter what your musical tastes happen to be, was that
Hammett became one of the great metal guitarists in the world, taking
thrash metal from an under ground movement into a thriving global musical
genre. Not only that, but from those lessons, Satriani honed his own
technique and became much better himself. Both the student and the teacher
would go on to fill stadiums and remake the musical landscape.
The mixed martial arts pioneer and multi-title champion Frank
Shamrock has a system he trains fighters in that he calls plus, minus, and
equal. Each fighter , to become great, he said, needs to have someone better
that they can learn from, someone lesser who they can teach, and someone
equal that they can challenge themselves against.
The purpose of Shamrock’ s formula is simple: to get real and continuous
feedback about what they know and what they don’ t know from every
angle. It pur ges out the ego that puf fs us up, the fear that makes us doubt
ourselves, and any laziness that might make us want to coast. As Shamrock
observed, “False ideas about yourself destroy you. For me, I always stay a
student. That’ s what martial arts are about, and you have to use that
humility as a tool. Y ou put yourself beneath someone you trust.” This
begins by accepting that others know more than you and that you can
benefit from their knowledge, and then seeking them out and knocking
down the illusions you have about yourself.
The need for a student mind-set doesn’ t stop with fighting or music. A
scientist must know the core principles of science and the discoveries
occurring on the cutting edge. A philosopher must know deeply , and also
know how little they know , as Socrates did. A writer must be versed in thecanon—and read and be challenged by her contemporaries too. A historian
must know ancient and modern history , as well as their specialty .
Professional athletes have teams of coaches, and even powerful politicians
have advisers and mentors.
Why? T o become great and to stay great, they must all know what came
before, what is going on now , and what comes next. They must internalize
the fundamentals of their domain and what surrounds them, without
ossifying or becoming stuck in time. They must be always learning. W e
must all become our own teachers, tutors, and critics.
Think about what Hammett could have done—what we might have done
in his position were we to suddenly find ourselves a rock star , or a soon-to-
be-rock star in our chosen field. The temptation is to think: I’ve made it.
I’ve arrived. They tossed the other guy because he’ s not as good as I am.
They chose me because I have what it takes.  Had he done that, we’d
probably have never heard of him or the band. There are, after all, plenty of
for gotten metal groups from the 1980s.
A true student is like a sponge. Absorbing what goes on around him,
filtering it, latching on to what he can hold. A student is self-critical and
self-motivated, always trying to improve his understanding so that he can
move on to the next topic, the next challenge. A real student is also his own
teacher and his own critic. There is no room for ego there.
T ake fighting as an example again, where self-awareness is particularly
crucial because opponents are constantly looking to match strength against
weakness. If a fighter is not capable of learning and practicing every day , if
he is not relentlessly looking for areas of improvement, examining his own
shortcomings, and finding new techniques to borrow from peers and
opponents, he will be broken down and destroyed.
It is not all that dif ferent for the rest of us. Are we not fighting for or
against something? Do you think you are the only one who hopes to achieve
your goal? Y ou can’ t possibly believe you’re the only one reaching for that
brass ring.
It tends to surprise people how humble aspiring greats seem to have
been. What do you mean they wer en’ t aggr essive, entitled, awar e of their
own gr eatness or their destiny?  The reality is that, though they were
confident, the act of being an eternal student kept these men and women
humble.“It is impossible to learn that which one thinks one already knows,”
Epictetus says. Y ou can’ t learn if you think you alr eady know .  Y ou will not
find the answers if you’re too conceited and self-assured to ask the
questions. Y ou cannot get better if you’re convinced you are the best.
The art of taking feedback is such a crucial skill in life, particularly harsh
and critical feedback. W e not only need to take this harsh feedback, but
actively solicit it, labor to seek out the negative precisely when our friends
and family and brain are telling us that we’re doing great. The ego avoids
such feedback at all costs, however . Who wants to remand themselves to
remedial training? It thinks it already knows how and who we are—that is,
it thinks we are spectacular , perfect, genius, truly innovative. It dislikes
reality and prefers its own assessment.
Ego doesn’ t allow for proper incubation either . T o become what we
ultimately hope to become often takes long periods of obscurity , of sitting
and wrestling with some topic or paradox. Humility is what keeps us there,
concerned that we don’ t know enough and that we must continue to study .
Ego rushes to the end, rationalizes that patience is for losers (wrongly
seeing it as a weakness), and assumes that we’re good enough to give our
talents a go in the world.
As we sit down to proof our work, as we make our first elevator pitch,
prepare to open our first shop, as we stare out into the dress rehearsal
audience, ego is the enemy—giving us wicked feedback, disconnected from
reality . It’ s defensive, precisely when we cannot af ford to be defensive. It
blocks us from improving by telling us that we don’ t need to improve. Then
we wonder why we don’ t get the results we want, why others are better and
why their success is more lasting.
T oday , books are cheaper than ever . Courses are free. Access to teachers
is no longer a barrier—technology has done away with that. There is no
excuse for not getting your education, and because the information we have
before us is so vast, there is no excuse for ever ending that process either .
Our teachers in life are not only those we pay , as Hammett paid Satriani.
Nor are they necessarily part of some training dojo, like it is for Shamrock.
Many of the best teachers are free. They volunteer because, like you, they
once were young and had the same goals you do. Many don’ t even know
they are teaching—they are simply exemplars, or even historical figures
whose lessons survive in books and essays. But ego makes us sohardheaded and hostile to feedback that it drives them away or puts them
beyond our reach.
It’ s why the old proverb says, “When student is ready , the teacher
