A fish stinks from the head, is the saying. W ell, you’re the head now .TBEW ARE THE DISEASE OF ME
If I am not for myself who will be for me? If I am only for myself, who am I?
— H I L L E L
here were great Allied generals of W orld W ar II—Patton, Bradley ,
Montgomery , Eisenhower , MacArthur , Zhukov—and then there was
Geor ge Catlett Marshall Jr . Although all of them served their countries and
fought and led bravely , one stands apart.
T oday , we see W orld W ar II as a clear fight in which good aligned
selflessly against evil. The problem is that victory and the passage of time
have obscured the all-too-humanness of the people who were on the right
side of that fight. That is: we for get the politics, the backstabbing, the
spotlight coveting, the posturing, the greed, and the ass-covering among the
Allies. While the other generals protected their turf, fought with each other ,
and eagerly aspired to their place in history , that behavior was virtually
absent in one man: General Geor ge Marshall.
More impressively , Marshall quietly outpaced all of them with the
magnitude of his accomplishments. What was his secret?
Pat Riley , the famous coach and manager who led the Los Angeles
Lakers and Miami Heat to multiple championships, says that great teams
tend to follow a trajectory . When they start—before they have won—a team
is innocent. If the conditions are right, they come together , they watch out
for each other and work together toward their collective goal. This stage, he
calls the “Innocent Climb . ”
After a team starts to win and media attention begins, the simple bonds
that joined the individuals together begin to fray . Players calculate their
own importance. Chests swell. Frustrations emer ge. Egos appear . The
Innocent Climb, Pat Riley says, is almost always followed by the “Diseaseof Me.” It can “strike any winning team in any year and at any moment,”
and does with alarming regularity .
It’ s Shaq and Kobe, unable to play together . It’ s Jordan punching Steve
Kerr , Horace Grant, and W ill Perdue—his own team members. He punched
people on his own team! It’ s Enron employees plunging California into
darkness for personal profit. It’ s leaks to the media from a disgruntled
executive hoping to scuttle a project he dislikes. It’ s negging and every
other intimidation tactic.
For us, it’ s beginning to think that we’re better , that we’re special, that
our problems and experiences are so incredibly dif ferent from everyone
else’ s that no one could possibly understand. It’ s an attitude that has sunk
far better people, teams, and causes than ours.
W ith General Marshall, who began his term as chief of staf f of the U.S.
Army on the day Germany invaded Poland in 1939 and served through the
entire war , we see one of history’ s few exceptions to this trend. Marshall
somehow never caught the Disease of Me, and in many ways, often shamed
it out of the people who did.
It begins with his balanced relationship to rank, an obsession for most
people in his line of work.
He was not a man who abstained from every  public show of rank or
status. He insisted that the president call him General Marshall, not Geor ge,
for example. (He earned it, right?) But while other generals regularly
lobbied for promotions—General MacArthur advanced over other of ficers
in the prewar years lar gely due to the aggressive ef forts of his mother—
Marshall actively discouraged it. When others began to push for Marshall to
be chief of staf f, he asked them to stop, because “[it] makes me conspicuous
in the army . T oo conspicuous in fact.” Later , he discouraged an ef fort by the
House to pass a bill awarding him the rank of field marshal—not only
because he thought the name Field Marshal Marshall  would sound
ridiculous, but because he didn’ t want to outrank or hurt his mentor ,
General Pershing, who was near death and a constant source of advice and
guidance.
Can you imagine? In all these cases, his sense of honor meant turning
down honors, and often letting them go to other people. Like any normal
human being, he wanted them, only the right way . More important, he knew
that, however nice they would have been to have, he could do without themwhile perhaps others could not. Ego needs honors in order to be validated.
Confidence, on the other hand, is able to wait and focus on the task at hand
regardless of external recognition.
Early on in our careers, we may be able to make these sacrifices more
easily . W e can drop out of a prestigious college to start our own company .
Or we can tolerate being looked over once in a while. Once we’ve “made
it,“ the tendency is to switch to the mind-set of “getting what’ s mine.” Now ,
all of a sudden awards and recognition matter—even though they weren’ t
what got us here. W e need  that money , that title, that media attention—not
for the team or the cause, but for ourselves. Because we’ve earned  it.
Let’ s make one thing clear: we never earn the right to be greedy or to
pursue our interests at the expense of everyone else. T o think otherwise is
not only egotistical, it’ s counterproductive.
Marshall was tested on this to the extreme. A job he’d trained his whole
life for was up for grabs: command of the troops on D-Day , essentially the
lar gest coordinated invasion the world had ever seen. Roosevelt let it be
known that it was Marshall’ s if he wanted it. A general’ s place in history is
assured by his feats in battle, so even though Marshall was needed in
W ashington, Roosevelt wanted to give him the opportunity to take
command. Marshall would have none of it. “The decision is yours, Mr .
President; my wishes have nothing to do with the matter .” The role and the
glory went to Eisenhower .
It came to be that Eisenhower was, in fact, the best man for that job. He
performed superbly and helped win the war . W ould anything else have been
worth the trade-of f?
Y et this is what we regularly refuse to do; our ego precludes serving any
lar ger mission we’re a part of.
What are we going to do? Let someone get one over on us?
The writer Cheryl Strayed once told a young reader , “Y ou’re becoming
who you are going to be and so you might as well not be an asshole.” This
is one of the most dangerous ironies of success—it can make us someone
we never wanted to be in the first place. The Disease of Me can corrupt the
most innocent climb.
There was a general who treated Marshall poorly—essentially banishing
him to some obscure postings in the middle of his career . Later , Marshall
surpassed him and had his chance for revenge. Except—he didn’ t take it.Because whatever the man’ s flaws, Marshall saw that he was still of use and
that the country would be worse of f without him. What were the thanks for
this quiet suppression of ego? Just another job well done—and not much
more.
The word for that is one we don’ t use much anymore: magnanimous. It
was good strategy too, of course, but mostly Marshall was gracious,
for giving, and magnanimous because it was right. According to observers
as high up as President T ruman, what separated Marshall from nearly
everyone else in the military and politics is that “never did General
Marshall think about himself.”
There is another story of Marshall sitting for one of the many of ficial
portraits that was required of him. After appearing many times and patiently
honoring the requests, Marshall was finally informed by the painter that he
was finished and free to go. Marshall stood up and began to leave. “Don’ t
you want to see the painting?” the artist asked. “No, thank you,” Marshall
said respectfully and left.
Is that to say that managing your image isn’ t important? Of course not.
Early in your career , you’ll notice that you jump on every opportunity to do
so. As you become more accomplished, you’ll realize that so much of it is a
distraction from your work—time spent with reporters, with awards, and
with marketing are time away from what you really care about.
Who has time to look at a picture of himself? What’ s the point?
As his wife later observed, the people who saw Geor ge Marshall as
simply modest or quiet missed what was special about the man. He had the
same traits that everyone has—ego, self-interest, pride, dignity , ambition—
but they were “tempered by a sense of humility and selflessness.”
It doesn’ t make you a bad person to want to be remembered. T o want to
make it to the top. T o provide for yourself and your family . After all, that’ s
all part of the allure.
There is a balance. Soccer coach T ony Adams expresses it well. Play for
the name on the front of the jersey , he says, and they’ll remember the name
on the back.
When it comes to Marshall, the old idea that selflessness and integrity
could be weaknesses or hold someone back are laughably disproven. Sure,
some people might have trouble telling you much about him—but each and
