imposed ignorance.SDON’T TELL YOURSELF A ST OR Y
Myth becomes myth not in the living but in the retelling.
— D A V I D  M A R A N I S S
tarting in 1979, football coach and general manager Bill W alsh took the
49ers from being the worst team in football, and perhaps professional
sports, to a Super Bowl victory , in just three years. It would have been
tempting, as he hoisted the Lombardi T rophy over his head, to tell himself
that the quickest turnaround in NFL history had been his plan all along. It
would have been tempting decades later , when he assembled his memoirs,
to assume that narrative as well.
It’ s a sexy story . That his takeover , his turnaround, and the
transformation were assiduously scheduled. That it all happened exactly as
he wanted—because he was just that good and that talented. No one would
have faulted him if he said that.
Y et he refused to indulge in those fantasies. When people asked W alsh
whether he had a timetable for winning the Super Bowl, do you know what
his answer was? The answer was always no . Because when you take over a
team that bad, such ambitions would have been utterly delusional.
The year before he arrived, the 49ers were 2 and 14. The or ganization
was demoralized, broken, without draft picks, and fully ensconced in a
culture of losing. His first season, they lost another fourteen games. He
nearly resigned midway through his second year , because he wasn’ t sure he
could do it. Y et, twenty-four months from taking over (and a little over a
year from having almost quit), there he was, the Super Bowl champion
“genius.”
How did it happen? How was that not part of the “plan”?The answer is that when Bill W alsh took control, he wasn’ t focused on
winning per se. Instead, he implemented what he called his “Standard of
Performance.” That is: What  should be done. When . How . At the most basic
level and throughout the or ganization, W alsh had only one timetable, and it
was all about instilling these standards.
He focused on seemingly trivial details: Players could not sit down on
the practice field. Coaches had to wear a tie and tuck their shirts in.
Everyone had to give maximum ef fort and commitment. Sportsmanship was
essential. The locker room must be neat and clean. There would be no
smoking, no fighting, no profanity . Quarterbacks were told where and how
to hold the ball. Linemen were drilled on thirty separate critical drills.
Passing routes were monitored and graded down to the inch.  Practices were
scheduled to the minute.
It would be a mistake to think this was about control. The Standard of
Performance was about instilling excellence. These seemingly simple but
exacting standards mattered more than some grand vision or power trip. In
his eyes, if the players take care of the details, “the score takes care of
itself.” The winning would happen.
W alsh was strong and confident enough to know that these standards
would eventually contribute to victory . He was also humble enough to
know that when  victory would happen was not something he could predict.
That it happened faster than for any coach in history? W ell, that was a
fortuitous break of the game. It was not because of his grand vision. In fact,
in his second season, a coach complained to the owner that W alsh was too
caught up in minutiae and had no goals to win. W alsh fired that coach for
tattling.
W e want so desperately to believe that those who have great empires set
out  to build one. Why? So we can indulge in the pleasurable planning of
ours. So we can take full credit for the good that happens and the riches and
respect that come our way . Narrative is when you look back at an
improbable or unlikely path to your success and say: I knew it all along.
Instead of: I hoped. I worked. I got some good breaks. Or even: I thought
this could  happen. Of course you didn’ t really know all along—or if you
did, it was more faith than knowledge. But who wants to remember all the
times you doubted yourself?Crafting stories out of past events is a very human impulse. It’ s also
dangerous and untrue. W riting our own narrative leads to arrogance. It turns
our life into a story—and turns us into caricatures—while we still have to
live it. As the author T obias W olf f writes in his novel Old School , these
explanations and stories get “cobbled together later , more or less sincerely ,
and after the stories have been repeated they put on the badge of memory
and block all other routes of exploration.”
Bill W alsh understood that it was really the Standard of Performance—
the deceptively small things—that was responsible for the team’ s
transformation and victory . But that’ s too boring for newspaper headlines.
It’ s why he ignored it when they called him “the Genius.”
T o accept the title and the story wouldn’ t be a harmless personal
gratification. These narratives don’ t change the past, but they do have the
power to negatively impact our future.
His players shortly proved the risks inherent in letting a story go to their
heads. Like most of us, they wanted to believe that their unlikely victory
occurred because they were special. In the two seasons after their first
Super Bowl, the team failed terribly—partly due to the dangerous
confidence that accompanies these kinds of victories—losing 12 of 22
games. This is what happens when you prematurely credit yourself with
powers you don’ t yet have control of. This is what happens when you start
to think about what your rapid achievements say about you  and begin to
slacken the ef fort and standards that initially fueled them.
Only when the team returned wholeheartedly to the Standard of
Performance did they win again (three more Super Bowls and nine
conference or division championships in a decade). Only when they stopped
with the stories and focused on the task at hand did they begin to win like
they had before.
Here’ s the other part: once you win, everyone is gunning for you. It’ s
during your moment at the top that you can af ford ego the least—because
the stakes are so much higher , the mar gins for error are so much smaller . If
anything, your ability to listen, to hear feedback, to improve and grow
matter more now than ever before.
Facts are better than stories and image. The twentieth-century financier
Bernard Baruch had a great line: “Don’ t try to buy at the bottom and sell at
the top. This can’ t be done—except by liars.” That is, people’ s claims aboutwhat they’re doing in the market are rarely to be trusted. Jef f Bezos, the
founder of Amazon, has talked about this temptation. He reminds himself
that there was “no aha moment” for his billion-dollar behemoth, no matter
what he might read in his own press clippings. The founding of a company ,
making money in the market, or the formation of an idea is messy .
Reducing it to a narrative retroactively creates a clarity that never was and
never will be there.
When we are aspiring we must resist the impulse to reverse engineer
success from other people’ s stories. When we achieve our own, we must
resist the desire to pretend that everything unfolded exactly as we’d
planned. There was no grand narrative. Y ou should remember—you were
there when it happened.
A few years ago, one of the founders of Google gave a talk in which he
said that the way he judges prospective companies and entrepreneurs is by
asking them “if they’re going to change the world.” Which is fine, except
that’ s not how Google started. (Larry Page and Ser gey Brin were two
Stanford PhDs working on their dissertations.) It’ s not how Y ouT ube
started. (Its founders weren’ t trying to reinvent TV ; they were trying to
share funny video clips.) It’ s not how most true wealth was created, in fact.
Investor Paul Graham (who invested in Airbnb, reddit, Dropbox, and
others), working in the same city as W alsh a few decades later , explicitly
warns startups against having bold, sweeping visions early on. Of course, as
a capitalist, he wants to fund companies that massively disrupt industries
and change the world—that’ s where the money is. He wants them to have
“frighteningly ambitious” ideas, but explains, “The way to do really big
things seems to be to start with deceptively small things.” He’ s saying you
don’ t make a frontal attack out of ego; instead, you start with a small bet
and iteratively scale your ambitions as you go. His other famous piece of
advice, “Keep your identity small,” fits well here. Make it about the work
and the principles behind it—not about a glorious vision that makes a good
headline.
Napoleon had the words “T o Destiny!” engraved on the wedding ring he
gave his wife. Destiny was what he’d always believed in, it was how he
justified his boldest, most ambitious ideas. It was also why he overreached
time and time again, until his real destiny was divorce, exile, defeat, and
infamy . A great destiny , Seneca reminds us, is great slavery .There is a real danger in believing it when people use the word
“genius”—and it’ s even more dangerous when we let hubris tell ourselves
we are one. The same goes for any label that comes along with a career: are
we suddenly a “filmmaker ,” “writer ,” “investor ,” “entrepreneur ,” or
“executive” because we’ve accomplished one thing? These labels put you at
odds not just with reality , but with the real strategy that made you
successful in the first place. From that place, we might think that success in
the future is just the natural next part of the story—when really it’ s rooted
in work, creativity , persistence, and luck.
Certainly Google’ s alienation from its own roots (confusing vision and
potential with scientific and technological pr owess ) will cause it to stumble
soon enough. It fact, the public failures of projects like Google Glass and
Google Plus might be evidence of it already . They’re not alone. T oo often,
artists who think it was “inspiration” or “pain” that fueled their art and
create an image around that—instead of hard work and sincere hustle—will
eventually find themselves at the bottom of a bottle or on the wrong end of
a needle.
The same goes for us, whatever we do. Instead of pretending that we are
living some great story , we must remain focused on the execution—and on
executing with excellence. W e must shun the false crown and continue
working on what got us here.
