appears.”PDON’T BE P ASSIONA TE
Y ou seem to want that vivida vis animi  which spurs and excites most young men to
please, to shine, to excel. W ithout the desire and the pains necessary to be considerable,
depend upon it, you never can be so.
— L O R D  C H E S T E R F I E L D
assion—it’ s all about passion. Find your passion. Live passionately .
Inspire the world with your passion.
People go to Burning Man to find passion, to be around passion, to
rekindle their passion. Same goes for TED and the now enormous SXSW
and a thousand other events, retreats, and summits, all fueled by what they
claim to be life’ s most important force.
Here’ s what those same people haven’ t told you: your passion may be
the very thing holding you back from power or influence or
accomplishment. Because just as often, we fail  with—no, because of —
passion.
Early on in her ascendant political career , a visitor once spoke of Eleanor
Roosevelt’ s “passionate interest” in a piece of social legislation. The person
had meant it as a compliment. But Eleanor ’ s response is illustrative. “Y es,”
she did support the cause, she said. “But I hardly think the word
‘passionate’ applies to me.”
As a genteel, accomplished, and patient woman born while the embers of
the quiet V ictorian virtues were still warm, Roosevelt was above passion.
She had purpose. She had direction. She wasn’ t driven by passion, but by
r eason.
Geor ge W . Bush, Dick Cheney , and Donald Rumsfeld, on the other hand,
were passionate about Iraq. Christopher McCandless was bursting with
passion as he headed “into the wild.” So was Robert Falcon Scott as he setout to explore the arctic, bitten as he was with “the Pole mania” (as were
many climbers of the tragic 1996 Everest climb, momentarily struck with
what psychologists now call “goalodicy”). The inventor and investors of the
Segway believed they had a world-changing innovation on their hands and
put everything into evangelizing it. That all of these talented, smart
individuals were fervent believers in what they sought to do is without
dispute. It’ s also clear that they were also unprepared and incapable of
grasping the objections and real concerns of everyone else around them.
The same is true for countless entrepreneurs, authors, chefs, business
owners, politicians, and designers that you’ve never heard of—and never
will hear of, because they sunk their own ships before they’d hardly left the
harbor . Like every other dilettante, they had passion and lacked something
else.
T o be clear , I’m not talking about caring . I’m talking about passion of a
dif ferent sort—unbridled enthusiasm, our willingness to pounce on what’ s
in front of us with the full measure of our zeal, the “bundle of ener gy” that
our teachers and gurus have assured us is our most important asset. It is that
burning, unquenchable desire to start or to achieve some vague, ambitious,
and distant goal. This seemingly innocuous motivation is so far from the
right track it hurts.
Remember , “zealot” is just a nice way to say “crazy person.”
A young basketball player named Lewis Alcindor Jr ., who won three
national championships with John W ooden at UCLA, used one word to
describe the style of his famous coach: “ dispassionate. ” As in not
passionate. W ooden wasn’ t about rah-rah speeches or inspiration. He saw
those extra emotions as a burden. Instead, his philosophy was about being
in control and doing your job and never being “passion’ s slave.” The player
who learned that lesson from W ooden would later change his name to one
you remember better: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar .
No one would describe Eleanor Roosevelt or John W ooden or his
notoriously quiet player Kareem as apathetic. They wouldn’ t have said they
were frenetic or zealous either . Roosevelt, one of the most powerful and
influential female activists in history and certainly America’ s most
important First Lady , was known primarily for her grace, her poise, and her
sense of direction. W ooden won ten titles in twelve years, including seven
in a row , because he developed a system for winning and worked with hisplayers to follow it. Neither of them were driven by excitement, nor were
they bodies in constant motion. Instead, it took them years to become the
person they became known as. It was a process of accumulation.
In our endeavors, we will face complex problems, often in situations
we’ve never faced before. Opportunities are not usually deep, vir gin pools
that require courage and boldness to dive into, but instead are obscured,
dusted over , blocked by various forms of resistance. What is really called
for in these circumstances is clarity , deliberateness, and methodological
determination.
But too often, we proceed like this . . .
A flash of inspiration: I want to do the best and biggest ______ ever . Be
the youngest ______. The only one to ______. The “firstest with the
mostest.”
The advice: Okay , well, here’ s what you’ll need to do step-by-step to
accomplish it.
The reality: W e hear what we want to hear . W e do what we feel like
doing, and despite being incredibly busy and working very hard, we
accomplish very little. Or worse, find ourselves in a mess we never
anticipated.
Because we only seem to hear about the passion of successful people, we
for get that failures shared the same trait. W e don’ t conceive of the
consequences until we look at their trajectory . W ith the Segway , the
inventor and investors wrongly assumed a demand much greater than ever
existed. W ith the run-up to the war in Iraq, its proponents ignored
objections and negative feedback because they conflicted with what they so
deeply needed to believe. The tragic end to the Into the W ild  story is the
result of youthful naiveté and a lack of preparation. W ith Robert Falcon
Scott, it was overconfidence and zeal without consideration of the real
dangers. W e imagine Napoleon was brimming with passion as he
contemplated the invasion of Russia and only finally became free of it as he
limped home with a fraction of the men he’d so confidently left with. In
many more examples we see the same mistakes: overinvesting,
underinvesting, acting before someone is really ready , breaking things that
required delicacy—not so much malice as the drunkenness of passion.
Passion typically masks a weakness. Its breathlessness and
impetuousness and franticness are poor substitutes for discipline, formastery , for strength and purpose and perseverance. Y ou need to be able to
spot this in others and in yourself, because while the origins of passion may
be earnest and good, its ef fects are comical and then monstrous.
Passion is seen in those who can tell you in great detail who they intend
to become and what their success will be like—they might even be able to
tell you specifically when they intend to achieve it or describe to you
legitimate and sincere worries they have about the burdens of such
accomplishments. They can tell you all the things they’re going to do, or
have even begun, but they cannot show you their progress. Because there
rarely is any .
How can someone be busy and not accomplish anything? W ell, that’ s the
passion paradox.
If the definition of insanity is trying the same thing over and over and
expecting dif ferent results, then passion is a form of mental retardation—
deliberately blunting our most critical cognitive functions. The waste is
often appalling in retrospect; the best years of our life burned out like a pair
of spinning tires against the asphalt.
Dogs, god bless them, are passionate. As numerous squirrels, birds,
boxes, blankets, and toys can tell you, they do not accomplish most of what
they set out to do. A dog has an advantage in all this: a graciously short
short-term memory that keeps at bay the creeping sense of futility and
impotence. Reality for us humans, on the other hand, has no reason to be
sensitive to the illusions we operate under . Eventually it will intrude.
What humans require in our ascent is purpose and realism. Purpose, you
could say , is like passion with boundaries. Realism is detachment and
perspective.
When we are young, or when our cause is young, we feel so intensely—
passion like our hormones runs strongest in youth—that it seems wrong to
take it slow . This is just our impatience. This is our inability to see that
burning ourselves out or blowing ourselves up isn’ t going to hurry the
journey along.
Passion is about.  (I am so passionate about ______.) Purpose is to and
for . (I must do ______. I was put here to accomplish ______. I am willing
to endure ______ for the sake of this.) Actually , purpose deemphasizes the
I . Purpose is about pursuing something outside yourself as opposed to
pleasuring yourself.More than purpose, we also need realism. Where do we start? What do
we do first? What do we do right now? How are we sure that what we’re
doing is moving us forward? What are we benchmarking ourselves against?
“Great passions are maladies without hope,” as Goethe once said. Which
is why a deliberate, purposeful person operates on a dif ferent level, beyond
the sway or the sickness. They hire professionals and use them. They ask
questions, they ask what could go wrong, they ask for examples. They plan
for contingencies. Then they are of f to the races. Usually they get started
with small steps, complete them, and look for feedback on how the next set
can be better . They lock in gains, and then get better as they go, often
leveraging those gains to grow exponentially rather than arithmetically .
Is an iterative approach less exciting than manifestos, epiphanies, flying
across the country to surprise someone, or sending four -thousand-word
stream-of-consciousness e-mails in the middle of the night? Of course. Is it
less glamorous and bold than going all in and maxing out your credit cards
because you believe in yourself? Absolutely . Same goes for the
spreadsheets, the meetings, the trips, the phone calls, software, tools, and
internal systems—and every how-to article ever written about them and the
routines of famous people. Passion is form over function. Purpose is
function, function, function.
The critical work that you want to do will require your deliberation and
consideration. Not passion. Not naïveté.
It’d be far better if you were intimidated by what lies ahead—humbled
by its magnitude and determined to see it through regardless. Leave passion
for the amateurs. Make it about what you feel you  must do and say , not
what you care about and wish to be. Remember T alleyrand’ s epigram for
diplomats, “Surtout, pas trop de zèle” (“Above all, not too much zeal”).
Then you will do great things. Then you will stop being your old, good-
