fondly at the bloody claw prints that marked your journey up the walls.JDRA W THE LINE
It can ruin your life only if it ruins your character .
— M A R C U S  A U R E L I U S
ohn DeLorean ran his car company into the ground with a mix of
outsized ambition, negligence, narcissism, greed, and mismanagement.
As the bad news began to pile up and the picture was made clear and
public, how do you think he responded?
W as it with resigned acceptance? Did he acknowledge the errors his
disgruntled employees were speaking out about for the first time? W as he
able to reflect, even slightly , on the mistakes and decisions that had brought
him, his investors, and his employees so much trouble?
Of course not. Instead he put in motion a series of events that would end
in a $60 million drug deal and his subsequent arrest. That’ s right, after his
company began to fail—failure almost exclusively tied to his
unprofessional management style—he figured the best way to save it all
would be to secure financing through an illegal shipment of 220 pounds of
cocaine.
Sure, after his publicized and very embarrassing arrest, DeLorean was
eventually acquitted on the char ges on the rather implausible ar gument of
“entrapment.” Except he is on video, holding up a baggie of cocaine, saying
with giddy excitement, “This stuf f is as good as gold.”
There’ s no question about who caused John DeLorean’ s disintegration.
There’ s also no question about who made it so much worse. The answer is:
HIM. He found himself in a hole and kept digging until he made it all the
way to hell.
If only he’d stopped. If at any point he’d said: Is this the person I want to
be?People make mistakes all the time. They start companies they think they
can manage. They have grand and bold visions that were a little too
grandiose. This is all perfectly fine; it’ s what being an entrepreneur or a
creative or even a business executive is about.
W e take risks. W e mess up.
The problem is that when we get our identity tied up in our work, we
worry that any kind of failure will then say something bad about us as a
person . It’ s a fear of taking responsibility , of admitting that we might have
messed up. It’ s the sunk cost fallacy . And so we throw good money and
good life after bad and end up making everything so much worse.
Let’ s say the walls feel like they’re closing in. It might feel as if you’ve
been betrayed or your life’ s work is being stolen. These are not rational,
good emotions that will lead to rational, good actions.
Ego asks: Why is this  happening to me ? How do I save this and pr ove to
everyone I’m as gr eat as they think? It’ s the animal fear of even the
slightest sign of weakness.
Y ou’ve seen this. Y ou’ve done this. Fighting desperately for something
we’re only making worse.
It is not a path to great things.
T ake Steve Jobs. He was 100 percent responsible for his firing from
Apple. Due to his later success, Apple’ s decision to fire him seems like an
example of poor leadership, but he was, at the time, unmanageable. His ego
was unequivocally out of control. If you were John Sculley and CEO of
Apple, you’d have fired that version of Steve Jobs too—and been right to
do so.
Now Steve Jobs’ s response to his firing was understandable. He cried.
He fought. When he lost, he sold all but a single share of his stock in Apple
and swore never to think of the place again. But then he started a new
company and threw his whole life into it. He tried to learn as best he could
from the management mistakes at the root of his first failure. He started
another company after that too, called Pixar . Steve Jobs, the famous
egomaniac who parked in handicap parking spaces just because he could,
responded in this critical moment in a surprising way . Humble for CEOs
convinced of their own genius, anyway . He worked until he’d not only
proven himself again, but significantly resolved the flaws that had caused
his downfall to begin with.It’ s not often that successful or powerful people are able to do this. Not
when they experience heartrending failure.
American Apparel’ s founder Dov Charney is an example. After losses of
some $300 million and numerous scandals, the company of fered him a
choice: step aside as CEO and guide the company as a creative consultant
(for a lar ge salary), or be fired. He rejected both options and picked
something much worse.
After filing a lawsuit in protest, he gambled his entire ownership in the
company to initiate a hostile takeover with a hedge fund and insisted that
his conduct be investigated and judged. It was, and he was not vindicated.
His personal life was splashed across the headlines and embarrassing details
revealed. The lawyer he chose to represent him in his lawsuits happened to
be the same one who’d already sued Charney close to half a dozen times for
sexual harassment and financial irregularities. In the past, Charney had
accused this man of shaking him down and making bogus legal claims.
Now they were working together .
American Apparel spent more than $10 million it didn’ t have to fight
him of f. A judge issued a restraining order . Sales slumped. Finally , the
company began laying of f factory workers and longtime employees—the
exact people he claimed to be fighting for—just to stay afloat. A year later ,
they were bankrupt and he was out of money too. *
It’ s like the disgraced statesman and general Alcibiades. In the
Peloponnesian W ar , he first fought for his home country and greatest love,
Athens. Then driven out for a drunken crime he may or may not have
committed, he defected to Sparta, Athens’ sworn enemy . Then running
afoul of the Spartans, he defected to Persia—the sworn enemy of both.
Finally , he was recalled to Athens, where his ambitious plans to invade
Sicily drove the Athenians to their ultimate ruin.
Ego kills what we love. Sometimes, it comes close to killing us too.
It is interesting that Alexander Hamilton, who of all the Founding
Fathers met the most tragic and unnecessary end, would have wise words
on this topic. But indeed he does (if only he could have remembered his
own advice before fighting his fatal duel). “Act with  fortitude  and honor ,”
he wrote to a distraught friend in serious financial and legal trouble of the
man’ s own making. “If you cannot reasonably hope for a favorable
extrication, do not plunge deeper . Have the courage to make a full stop.”A full stop.  It’ s not that these folks should have quit everything. It’ s that
a fighter who can’ t tap out or a boxer who can’ t recognize when it’ s time to
retire gets hurt. Seriously so. Y ou have to be able to see the bigger picture.
But when ego is in control, who can?
Let’ s say you’ve failed and let’ s even say it was your fault. Shit happens
and, as they say , sometimes shit happens in public.  It’ s not fun. The
questions remain: Are you going to make it worse? Or are you going to
emer ge from this with your dignity and character intact? Are you going to
live to fight another day?
When a team looks like they’re going to lose a game, the coach doesn’ t
call them all over and lie to them. Instead, he or she reminds them who they
are and what they’re capable of, and ur ges them to go back out there and
embody that. W ith winning or miracles of f their minds, a good team does its
best to complete the game at the highest standard possible (and share the
playing time with other players who don’ t regularly play). And sometimes,
they even come back and win.
Most trouble is temporary . . . unless you make that not so. Recovery is
not grand, it’ s one step in front of the other . Unless your cure is more of the
disease.
Only ego thinks embarrassment or failure are more than what they are.
History is full of people who suf fered abject humiliations yet recovered to
have long and impressive careers. Politicians who lost elections or lost
of fices due to indiscretions—but came back to lead after time had passed.
Actors whose movies bombed, authors who got writer ’ s block, celebrities
who made gaf fes, parents who made mistakes, entrepreneurs with faltering
companies, executives who got fired, athletes who were cut, people who
lived too well at the top of the market. All these folks felt the hard edge of
failure, just like we have. When we lose, we have a choice: Are we going to
make this a lose-lose situation for ourselves and everyone involved? Or will
it be a lose . . . and then win?
Because you will lose in life. It’ s a fact. A doctor has to call time of
death at some point. They just do.
Ego says we’re the immovable object, the unstoppable force. This
delusion causes the problems. It meets failure and adversity with rule
breaking—betting everything on some crazy scheme; doubling down onbehind-the-scenes machinations or unlikely Hail Marys—even though that’ s
what got you to this pain point in the first place.
At any given time in the circle of life, we may be aspiring, succeeding,
or failing—though right now we’re failing. W ith wisdom, we understand
that these positions are transitory , not statements about your value as a
human being. When success begins to slip from your fingers—for whatever
reason—the response isn’ t to grip and claw so hard that you shatter it to
pieces. It’ s to understand that you must work yourself back to the
aspirational phase. Y ou must get back to first principles and best practices.
“He who fears death will never do anything worthy of a living man,”
Seneca once said. Alter that: He who will do anything to avoid failure will
almost certainly do something worthy of a failur e.
The only real failure is abandoning your principles. Killing what you
love because you can’ t bear to part from it is selfish and stupid. If your
reputation can’ t absorb a few blows, it wasn’ t worth anything in the first
