Because that’ s independence.WENTITLEMENT , CONTROL, AND P ARANOIA
One of the symptoms of approaching nervous breakdown is the belief that one’ s work
is terribly important.
— B E R T R A N D  R U S S E L L
hen Xerxes, the Persian emperor , crossed the Hellespont during his
invasion of Greece, the waters sur ged up and destroyed the bridges
his engineers had spent days building. And so he threw chains into the river ,
ordered it be given three hundred lashes, and branded it with hot irons. As
his men delivered his punishment, they were ordered to harangue it: “Y ou
salt and bitter stream, your master lays this punishment upon you for
injuring him, who never injured you.” Oh, and he cut of f the heads of the
men who had built the bridges.
Herodotus, the great historian, called the display “presumptuous,” which
is probably an understatement. Surely “preposterous” and “delusional” are
more appropriate. Then again, it was part of his personality . Shortly before
this, Xerxes had written a letter to a nearby mountain in which he needed to
cut a canal. Y ou may be tall and proud, he wrote, but don’ t you dare cause
me any trouble. Otherwise, I’ll topple you into the sea.
How hilarious is that? More important, how pathetic?
Xerxes’ delusional threats are unfortunately not a historical anomaly .
W ith success, particularly power , come some of the greatest and most
dangerous delusions: entitlement, control, and paranoia.
Hopefully you won’ t find yourself so crazed that you start
anthropomorphizing, and inflicting retribution on inanimate objects. That’ s
pure, recognizable crazy , and thankfully rare. What’ s more likely , and more
common, is we begin to overestimate our own power . Then we lose
perspective. Eventually , we can end like Xerxes, a monstrous joke.“The Strongest Poison ever known,” the poet W illiam Blake wrote,
“came from Caesar ’ s Laurel Crown.” Success casts a spell over us.
The problem lies in the path that got us to success in the first place. What
we’ve accomplished often required feats of raw power and force of will.
Both entrepreneurship and art required the creation of something where
nothing existed before. W ealth means beating the market and the odds.
Athletic champions have proved their physical superiority over opponents.
Achieving success involved ignoring the doubts and reservations of the
people around us. It meant rejecting rejection. It required taking certain
risks. W e could have given up at any time, but we’re here precisely because
we didn’ t. Persistence and courage in the face of ridiculous odds are
partially irrational traits—in some cases r eally irrational. When it works,
those tendencies can feel like they’ve been vindicated.
And why shouldn’ t they? It’ s human to think that since it’ s been done
once—that the world was changed in some big or small way—that there is
now a magical power in our possession. W e’re here because we’re bigger ,
stronger , smarter . That we make the reality we inhabit.
Right before he destroyed his own billion-dollar company , T y W arner ,
creator of Beanie Babies, overrode the cautious objections of one of his
employees and bragged, “I could put the T y heart on manure and they’d buy
it!” He was wrong. And the company not only catastrophically failed, he
later narrowly missed going to jail.
It doesn’ t matter if you’re a billionaire, a millionaire, or just a kid who
snagged a good job early . The complete and utter sense of certainty that got
you here can become a liability if you’re not careful. The demands and
dream you had for a better life? The ambition that fueled your ef fort? These
begin as earnest drives but left unchecked become hubris and entitlement.
The same goes for the instinct to take char ge; now you’re addicted to
control. Driven to prove the doubters wrong? W elcome to the seeds of
paranoia.
Y es, there are legitimate stresses and anguish that come with the
responsibilities of your new life. All the things you’re managing, the
frustrating mistakes of people who should know better , the endless creep of
obligations—no one prepares us for that, which makes the feelings all the
harder to deal with. The promised land was supposed to be nice, notaggravating. But you can’ t let the walls close in on you. Y ou’ve got to get
yourself—and your perceptions—under control.
When Arthur Lee was sent to France and England to serve as one of
America’ s diplomats during the Revolutionary W ar , instead of relishing the
opportunity to work with his fellow diplomat Silas Deane and elder
statesman Benjamin Franklin, he raged and resented them and suspected
them of disliking him. Finally , Franklin wrote him a letter (one that we’ve
probably all deserved to get at one point or another): “If you do not cure
yourself of this temper ,” Franklin advised, “it will end in insanity , of which
it is the symptomatic forerunner .” Probably because he was in such
command of his own temper , Franklin decided that writing the letter was
cathartic enough. He never sent it.
If you’ve ever listened to the Oval Of fice tapes of Richard Nixon, you
can hear the same sickness, and you wish someone could have sent him
such a letter . It’ s a harrowing insight into a man who has lost his grip not
just on what he is legally allowed to do, on what his job was (to serve  the
people), but on reality itself. He vacillates wildly from supreme confidence
to dread and fear . He talks over his subordinates and rejects information and
feedback that challenges what he wants to believe. He lives in a bubble in
which no one can say no—not even his conscience.
There’ s a letter from General W infield Scott to Jef ferson Davis, then the
secretary of war for the United States. Davis belligerently pestered Scott
repeatedly about some trivial matter . Scott ignored it until, finally , forced to
address it, he wrote that he pitied Davis. “Compassion is always due,” he
said to him, “to an enraged imbecile, who lays about him in blows which
hurt only himself.“
Ego is its own worst enemy . It hurts the ones we love too. Our families
and friends suf fer for it. So do our customers, fans, and clients. A critic of
Napoleon nailed it when remarking: “He despises the nation whose
applause he seeks.” He couldn’ t help but see the French people as pieces to
be manipulated, people he had to be better than, people who, unless they
were totally , unconditionally supportive of him, were against him.
A smart man or woman must regularly remind themselves of the limits
of their power and reach.
Entitlement assumes: This is mine. I’ve earned it. At the same time,
entitlement nickels and dimes other people because it can’ t conceive ofvaluing another person’ s time as highly as its own. It delivers tirades and
pronouncements that exhaust the people who work for and with us, who
have no choice other than to go along. It overstates our abilities to
ourselves, it renders generous judgment of our prospects, and it creates
ridiculous expectations.
Control says, It all must be done my  way—even little things, even
inconsequential things. It can become paralyzing perfectionism, or a million
pointless battles fought merely for the sake of exerting its say . It too
exhausts people whose help we need, particularly quiet people who don’ t
object until we’ve pushed them to their breaking point. W e fight with the
clerk at the airport, the customer service representative on the telephone, the
agent who examines our claim . T o what end? In reality , we don’ t control the
weather , we don’ t control the market, we don’ t control other people, and
our ef forts and ener gies in spite of this are pure waste.
Paranoia thinks, I can’ t trust anyone. I’m in this totally by myself and for
myself. It says, I’m surrounded by fools. It says, focusing on my work, my
obligations, myself is not enough. I also have to be orchestrating various
machinations behind the scenes—to get them before they get me; to get
them back for the slights I perceive.
Everyone has had a boss, a partner , a parent like this. All that strife,
anger , chaos, and conflict. How did it go for them? How did it end?
“He who indulges empty fears earns himself real fears,” wrote Seneca,
who as a political adviser witnessed destructive paranoia at the highest
levels.
The sad feedback loop is that the relentless “looking out for number one”
can encourage other people to undermine and fight us. They see that
behavior for what it really is: a mask for weakness, insecurity , and
instability . In its frenzy to protect itself, paranoia creates the persecution it
seeks to avoid, making the owner a prisoner of its own delusions and chaos.
Is this the freedom you envisioned when you dreamed of your success?
Likely not.
