T o push thr ough failur e with str ength, not ego.IEPILOGUE
There is something of a civil war going on within all of our lives. There is a recalcitrant
South of our soul revolting against the North of our soul. And there is this continual
struggle within the very structure of every individual life.
— M A R T I N  L U T H E R  K I N G  J R .
f you’re reading this right now , then you’ve made it through this book. I
was afraid some people might not. T o be perfectly honest, I wasn’ t sure
I’d ever get here myself.
How do you feel? T ired? Confused? Free?
It is no easy task to go head-to-head with one’ s ego. T o accept first that
ego may be there. Then to subject it to scrutiny and criticism. Most of us
can’ t handle uncomfortable self-examination. It’ s easier to do just about
anything else—in fact, some of the world’ s most unbelievable
accomplishments are undoubtedly a result of a desire to avoid facing the
darkness of ego.
In any case, just by making it to this point you’ve struck a serious blow
against it. It’ s not all you’ll need to do, but it is a start.
My friend the philosopher and martial artist Daniele Bolelli once gave
me a helpful metaphor . He explained that training was like sweeping the
floor . Just because we’ve done it once, doesn’ t mean the floor is clean
forever . Every day the dust comes back. Every day we must sweep.
The same is true for ego. Y ou would be stunned at what kind of damage
dust and dirt can do over time. And how quickly it accumulates and
becomes utterly unmanageable.
A few days after being fired by the American Apparel board of directors,
Dov Charney called me at 3 A.M.  He was alternately despondent and angry
—genuinely believing himself to be totally blameless for his situation. Iasked him, “Dov , what are you going to do? Are you going to pull a Steve
Jobs and start a new company? Are you going to make a comeback?” He
got quiet and said to me with an earnestness I could feel through the phone
and in my bones, “R yan, Steve Jobs died .” T o him, in this addled state, this
failure, this blow was somehow the same as death. That was one of the last
times we ever spoke. I watched with horror in the months that followed as
he wreaked havoc on the company he had put everything into building.
It was a sad moment and one that has stayed with me.
But for the grace of God go I. But for the grace of God, that could be
any of us.
W e all experience success and failure in our own way . Struggling to
write this book, I went through four hard-fought but rejected drafts of the
proposal and dozens of drafts of the manuscript. On my earlier projects, I’m
sure the strain would have broken me. Maybe I would have quit or tried to
work with someone else. Maybe I would have dug in my heels to get my
way and irreparably damaged the book.
At some point during the process, I came up with a therapeutic device.
After each draft, I would tear up the pages and feed the paper to a worm
compost I keep in my garage. A few months later , those painful pages were
dirt that nourished my yard, which I could walk with bare feet. It was a real
and tangible connection to that lar ger immensity . I liked to remind myself
that the same process is going to happen to me when I’m done, when I die
and nature tears me up.
One of the most freeing realizations came to me while I was writing and
thinking about the ideas in the pages you’ve just read. It occurred to me
what a damaging delusion this notion that our lives are “grand monuments”
set to last for all time really is. Any ambitious person knows that feeling—
that you must do great things, that you must get your way , and that if you
don’ t that you’re a worthless failure and the world is conspiring against
you. There is so much pressure that eventually we all break under it or are
broken by it.
Of course, that is not true. Y es, we all have potential within us. W e all
have goals and accomplishments that we know we can achieve—whetherit’ s starting a company , finishing a creative work, making a run at a
championship, or getting to the top of your respective field. These are
worthy aims. A broken person will not get there.
The problem is when ego intrudes on these pursuits, corrupting them and
undermining us as we set out to achieve and accomplish. Whispering lies as
we embark on that journey and whispering lies as we succeed in it, and
worse, whispering painful lies when we stumble along the way . Ego, like
any drug, might be indulged at first in a misguided attempt to get an edge or
to take one of f. The problem is how quickly it becomes an end unto itself.
Which is how one finds oneself in surreal moments like the one I
experienced on the phone with Dov , or in any of the cautionary tales in this
book.
In the course of my work and my life, I’ve found that most of the
consequences of ego are not quite so calamitous. Many of the people in
your life—and in our world—who have given over to their ego will not “get
what they deserve” in the sense of karmic justice that we were taught to
believe in as kids. I wish it were so simple.
Instead, the consequences are closer to the ending of one of my favorite
books,  What Makes Sammy Run? by Budd Schulber g, a novel whose
famous character is based on the real lives of entertainment entrepreneurs
like Samuel Goldwyn and David O. Selznick. In the book, the narrator is
called to the palatial mansion of a calculating, ruthless, egotistical
Hollywood mogul whose precipitous rise he has followed with a mix of
admiration and confusion and eventually disgust.
In this moment of vulnerability , the narrator catches a true glimpse into
the man’ s life—his lonely , empty marriage, his fear , his insecurity , his
inability to be still even for a second. He realizes that the vengeance—the
bad karma—he’d hoped for , for all the rules the man had broken, all the
cheating ways he had gotten ahead, wasn’ t coming. Because it was already
there. As he writes,
I had expected something conclusive and fatal and now I realized that
what was coming to him was not a sudden pay-of f but a process, a
disease he had caught in the epidemic that swept over his birthplace
like a plague; a cancer that was slowly eating him away , thesymptoms developing and intensifying: success, loneliness, fear . Fear
of all the bright young men, the newer , fresher Sammy Glicks that
would spring up to harass him, to threaten him and finally overtake
him.
That’ s how ego manifests itself. And isn’ t that what we’re desperately
afraid of becoming?
I’ll reveal one last thing I hope will make this come full circle. I first
read that passage when I was nineteen years old. It was reading assigned by
a seasoned mentor who had found, as I would, early success in the
entertainment business. The book was influential and informative for me,
just as he’d known it would be.
Y et over the next few years, I worked myself into a nearly identical
situation as the characters in the book. Not just summoned to the palatial
home to watch the expected and unavoidable dissolution of a person I
admired. But to find myself dangerously close to my own shortly thereafter .
I know the passage struck me because when I went to type it up for this
epilogue, I found in my original copy pages covered in my own
handwriting, written years before, detailing my reaction, right before I had
set out into the world. Clearly I had understood Schulber g’ s words
intellectually , even emotionally—but I had made the wrong choices
anyway . I had swept once and thought it was enough.
T en years after first reading it and writing down my thoughts, I was
ready once more. Those lessons came home to me in exactly the way I
needed them to.
There’ s a quote from Bismarck that says, in ef fect, any fool can learn
from experience. The trick is to learn from other  people’ s  experience. This
book started around the latter idea and to my surprise ended up with a
painful amount of the former as well. I set out to study ego and came
crashing into my own—and to those of the people I had long since looked
up to.
It may be that you’ll need to experience some of that on your own too.
Perhaps it is like Plutarch’ s reflection that we don’ t “so much gain the
knowledge of things by the words, as words by the experience [we have] of
things.”In any case, I want to conclude this book with the idea that has
underpinned all of what you’ve just read. That it’ s admirable to want to be
better businessmen or businesswomen, better athletes, better conquerors.
W e should want to be better informed, better of f financially . . . W e should
want, as I’ve said a few times in this book, to do great things. I know that I
do.
But no less impressive an accomplishment: being better people, being
happier people, being balanced people, being content people, being humble
and selfless people. Or better yet, all of these traits together . And what is
most obvious but most ignored is that perfecting the personal regularly
leads to success as a professional, but rarely the other way around. W orking
to refine our habitual thoughts, working to clamp down on destructive
impulses, these are not simply the moral requirements of any decent person.
They will make us more successful; they will help us navigate the
treacherous waters that ambition will require us to travel. And they are also
their own reward.
So here you are, at the end of this book about ego, having seen as much
as one can be shown about the problems of ego from other people’ s
experiences and my own.
What is left?
Y our choices. What will you do  with this information? Not just now , but
going forward?
Every day for the rest of your life you will find yourself at one of three
phases: aspiration, success, failure. Y ou will battle the ego in each of them.
Y ou will make mistakes in each of them.
Y ou must sweep the floor every minute of every day . And then sweep
again.WHA T SHOULD YOU READ NEXT?
For most people, bibliographies are boring. For those of us who love to
read, they can be the best part of an entire book. As one of those people, I
have prepared for you—my book-loving reader—a full guide to every
single book and source I used in this study of ego. I wanted to show you not
just which books deserved citation but what I got out of them, and which
ones I strongly recommend you read next. In doing this, I got so carried
away that my publisher informed me what I had prepared was too big to fit
in the book. So I’d like to send it to you directly—in fully clickable and
searchable form.
If you’d like these recommendations, all you have to do is e-mail
EgoIsTheEnemy@gmail.com or visit www .EgoIsTheEnemy .com/books.
I’ll also send you a collection of my favorite quotes and observations about
ego—many of which I couldn’ t fit in this book.
CAN I GET EVEN MORE BOOK RECOMMENDA TIONS?
Y ou can also sign up for my monthly book recommendation e-mail. The list
of recipients has grown to more than fifty thousand rabid, curious readers
like yourself. Y ou’ll get one e-mail per month, with recommendations from
me based on my own personal reading. It kicks of f with ten of my favorite
books of all time. Just e-mail ryanholiday@gmail.com with “Reading List
E-mail” in the subject line or sign up at ryanholiday .net/reading-newsletter .SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY
Aristotle. trans. T erence Irwin. Nicomachean Ethics . Indianapolis, IN:
Hackett Publishing, 1999.
Barlett, Donald L., and James B. Steele. Howar d Hughes: His Life and
Madness . London: Andre Deutsch, 2003.
Bly , Robert. Ir on John: A Book About Men.  Cambridge, MA: Da Capo,
2004.
Bolelli, Daniele. On the W arrior ’ s Path: Fighting, Philosophy , and Martial
Arts Mythology . Berkeley , CA: Frog, 2003.
Brady , Frank. Citizen W elles: A Biography of Orson W elles . New Y ork:
Scribner , 1988.
Brown, Peter H., and Pat H. Broeske. Howar d Hughes: The Untold Story .
Da Capo, 2004.
C., Chuck. A New Pair of Glasses.  Irvine, CA: New-Look Publishing, 1984.
Chernow , Ron. T itan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller , Sr .  New Y ork:
V intage, 2004.
Cook, Blanche W iesen. Eleanor Roosevelt: The Defining Y ears.  New Y ork:
Penguin, 2000.
Coram, Robert. Boyd: The Fighter Pilot Who Changed the Art of W ar .
Boston: Little, Brown, 2002.
Cray , Ed. General of the Army: Geor ge C. Marshall, Soldier and
Statesman.  New Y ork: Cooper Square, 2000.
Csikszentmihalyi, Mihaly . Cr eativity: Flow and the Psychology of
Discovery and Invention.  New Y ork: Harper Collins, 1996.
Emerson, Ralph W aldo. Repr esentative Men: Seven Lectur es. Cambridge,
MA: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1987.
Geneen, Harold. Managing.  Garden City , NY : Doubleday , 1984.
Graham, Katharine. Personal History .  New Y ork: Knopf, 1997.Grant, Ulysses S. Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant, Selected Letters 1839–
1865.  New Y ork: Library of America, 1990.
Halberstam, David. The Education of a Coach.  New Y ork: Hachette, 2006.
Henry , Philip, and J. C. Coulston. The Life of Belisarius: The Last Gr eat
General of Rome.  Y ardley , Penn.: W estholme, 2006.
Herodotus, trans. Aubrey De Sélincourt, rev . John Marincola. The Histories.
London: Penguin, 2003.
Hesiod, Theogony and  W orks and Days  and Theognis, Elegies.  T rans,
Dorothea W ender . Harmondsworth, U.K.: Penguin, 1973.
Isaacson, W alter . Benjamin Franklin: An American Life.  New Y ork: Simon
& Schuster , 2003.
Lamott, Anne. Bir d by Bir d: Some Instructions on W riting and Life.  New
Y ork: Anchor , 1995.
Levin, Hillel. Grand Delusions: The Cosmic Car eer of John DeLor ean.
New Y ork: V iking, 1983.
Liddell Hart, B. H. Sherman: Soldier , Realist, American.  New Y ork: Da
Capo, 1993.
Malcolm X, and Alex Haley . The Autobiography of Malcolm X.  New Y ork:
Ballantine, 1992.
Marcus Aurelius, trans. Gregory Hays. Meditations.  New Y ork: Modern
Library , 2002.
Martial, trans. Craig A. W illiams. Epigrams.  Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 2004.
McPhee, John. A Sense of Wher e Y ou Ar e: A Pr ofile of Bill Bradley at
Princeton.  New Y ork: Farrar , Straus and Giroux, 1999.
McW illiams, Carey . The Education of Car ey McW illiams.  New Y ork:
Simon & Schuster , 1979.
Mosley , Leonard. Marshall: Her o for Our T imes.  New Y ork: Hearst, 1982.
Muir , John. W ilderness Essays.  Salt Lake City: Peregrine Smith, 1980.
Nixon by Nixon: In His Own W or ds.  Directed by Peter W . Kunhardt. HBO
documentary , 2014.
Orth, Maureen. “Angela’ s Assets.” V anity Fair ,  January 2015.
Packer , Geor ge. “The Quiet German.” New Y orker ,  December 1, 2014.
Palahniuk, Chuck. Fight Club.  New Y ork: W . W . Norton, 1996.
Plutarch, trans. Ian Scott-Kilvert. The Rise and Fall of Athens: Nine Gr eek
Lives . Harmondsworth, U.K: Penguin, 1960.Pressfield, Steven. T ides of W ar: A Novel of Alcibiades and the
Peloponnesian W ar .  New Y ork: Bantam, 2001.
Rampersad, Arnold. Jackie Robinson: A Biography .  New Y ork: Knopf,
1997.
Riley , Pat. The W inner W ithin: A Life Plan for T eam Players.  New Y ork:
Putnam, 1993.
Roberts, Russ. How Adam Smith Can Change Y our Life.  New Y ork:
Portfolio / Penguin, 2015.
Schulber g, Budd. What Makes Sammy Run?  New Y ork: V intage, 1993.
Sears, Stephen W . Geor ge B. McClellan: The Y oung Napoleon.  New Y ork:
T icknor & Fields, 1988.
Seneca, Lucius Annaeus, trans. C.D.N. Costa. On the Shortness of Life.
New Y ork: Penguin, 2005.
Shamrock, Frank. Uncaged: My Life as a Champion MMA Fighter .
Chicago: Chicago Review Press, 2012.
Sheridan, Sam. The Fighter ’ s Mind: Inside the Mental Game.  New Y ork:
Atlantic Monthly , 2010.
Sherman, W illiam T . Memoirs of General W . T . Sherman.  New Y ork:
Literary Classics of the United States, 1990.
Smith, Adam. The Theory of Moral Sentiments.  New Y ork: Penguin, 2009.
Smith, Jean Edward. Eisenhower: In W ar and Peace.  New Y ork: Random
House, 2012.
Stevenson, Robert Louis. An Apology for Idlers.  London: Penguin, 2009.
W alsh, Bill. The Scor e T akes Car e of Itself: My Philosophy of Leadership.
New Y ork: Portfolio / Penguin, 2009.
W ashington, Booker T . Up fr om Slavery .  New Y ork: Dover , 1995.
W eatherford, J. Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern W orld.  New
Y ork: Three Rivers, 2005.
W ooden, John. Coach W ooden’ s Leadership Game Plan for Success: 12
Lessons for Extraor dinary Performance and Personal Excellence.
New Y ork: McGraw-Hill Education, 2009.ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
In my previous books, I’ve tried to make a point of thanking not only the
people and mentors who have helped with the book, but also to make it
clear how indebted I am to the many authors and thinkers I have relied on
over the years. This book would not only not be possible without them, but
I also feel incredibly guilty that readers might credit me for insights that
originated with other , wiser writers. Anything valuable in this book came
from them and not me.
This book would not be what it is without the editing and valuable
advice of my editors Nils Parker and Niki Papadopoulos. Steven Pressfield,
T om Bilyeu, and Joey Roth provided critical notes early on that I am very
grateful for .
I want to thank my wife, who not only helped me personally during the
writing of this book, but was my most dedicated reader . I want to thank my
agent, Steve Hanselman, who has represented me from day one. Thanks to
Michael T unney for his help with the proposal, Kevin Currie for his help,
and Hristo V assilev for his excellent research work and assistance. Thanks
to Mike Lombardi at the Patriots for his support and insight. Also I owe a
debt of gratitude to T im Ferriss, whose support of my last book made this
one possible, and the same goes to Robert Greene, who helped make me a
writer , and Dr . Drew , who introduced me to philosophy . I want to thank
John Luttrell and T obias Keller for their guidance and conversations with
me during the chaos at American Apparel. I’m not sure if I would have
made it, period, were it not for W orkaholics Anonymous, both their meeting
in Los Angeles and weekly calls.
In terms of places, the University of T exas at Austin Library , the
University of California Riverside Library , various running trails (and my
shoes), and my home away from home, the Los Angeles Athletic Club,
facilitated the actual writing in this book.Finally , would it be wrong to thank my pet goats too? If not, thanks to
Biscuit, Bucket, and W atermelon for keeping things entertaining.
Looking for mor e?  
 
V isit Penguin.com for more about this author and a
complete list of their books.  
 
Discover your next gr eat r ead!
