Doing the work is enough.TFIGHT CLUB  MOMENTS
If you shut up truth and bury it under the ground, it will but grow , and gather to itself
such explosive power that the day it bursts through it will blow up everything in its
way .
— E M I L E  Z O L A
here is hardly the space to list all the successful people who have hit
rock bottom.
The notion everyone experiences jarring, perspective-altering moments
is almost a cliché. That doesn’ t mean it isn’ t true.
J. K. Rowling finds herself seven years after college with a failed
marriage, no job, single parent, kids she can barely feed, and approaching
homelessness. A teenage Charlie Parker thinks he is tearing it up on stage,
right in the pocket with the rest of the crew , until Jo Jones throws a cymbal
at him and chases him away in humiliation. A young L yndon Johnson is
beaten to a pulp by a Hill Country farm boy over a girl, finally shattering
his picture of himself as “cock of the walk.”
There are many ways to hit bottom. Almost everyone does in their own
way , at some point.
In the novel Fight Club , the character Jack’ s apartment is blown up. All
of his possessions—“every stick of furniture,” which he pathetically loved
—were lost. Later it turns out that Jack blew it up himself. He had multiple
personalities, and “T yler Durden” orchestrated the explosion to shock Jack
from the sad stupor he was afraid to do anything about. The result was a
journey into an entirely dif ferent and rather dark part of his life.
In Greek mythology , characters often experience katabasis —or “a going
down.” They’re forced to retreat, they experience a depression, or in somecases literally descend into the underworld. When they emer ge, it’ s with
heightened knowledge and understanding.
T oday , we’d call that hell—and on occasion we all spend some time
there.
W e surround ourselves with bullshit. W ith distractions. W ith lies about
what makes us happy and what’ s important. W e become people we
shouldn’ t become and engage in destructive, awful behaviors. This
unhealthy and ego-derived state hardens and becomes almost permanent.
Until katabasis  forces us to face it.
Duris dura franguntur . Hard things are broken by hard things.
The bigger the ego the harder the fall.
It would be nice if it didn’ t have to be that way . If we could nicely be
nudged to correct our ways, if a quiet admonishment was what it took to
shoo away illusions, if we could manage to circumvent ego on our own. But
it is just not so. The Reverend W illiam A. Sutton observed some 120 years
ago that “we cannot be humble except by enduring humiliations.” How
much better it would be to spare ourselves these experiences, but sometimes
it’ s the only way the blind can be made to see.
In fact, many significant life changes come from moments in which we
are thoroughly demolished, in which everything we thought we knew about
the world is rendered false. W e might call these “Fight Club moments.”
Sometimes they are self-inflicted, sometimes inflicted on us, but whatever
the cause they can be catalysts for changes we were petrified to make.
Pick a time in your life (or perhaps it’ s a moment you’re experiencing
now). A boss’ s eviscerating critique of you in front of the entire staf f. That
sit-down with the person you loved. The Google Alert that delivered the
article you’d hoped would never be written. The call from the creditor . The
news that threw you back in your chair , speechless and dumbfounded.
It was in those moments—when the break exposes something unseen
before—that you were forced to make eye contact with a thing called T ruth.
No longer could you hide or pretend.
Such a moment raises many questions: How do I make sense of this?
How do I move onwar d and upwar d? Is this the bottom, or is ther e mor e to
come? Someone told me my pr oblems, so how do I fix them? How did I let
this happen? How can it never happen again?A look at history finds that these events seem to be defined by three
traits:
1. They almost always came at the hands of some outside force or
person.
2. They often involved things we already knew about ourselves, but
were too scared to admit.
3. From the ruin came the opportunity for great progress and
improvement.
Does everyone take advantage of that opportunity? Of course not. Ego
often causes the crash and then blocks us from improving.
W as the 2008 financial crisis not a moment in which everything was laid
bare for many people? The lack of accountability , the overleveraged
lifestyles, the greed, the dishonesty , the trends that could not possibly
continue. For some, this was a wake-up call. Others, just a few years later ,
are back exactly where they were. For them, it will be worse next time.
Hemingway had his own rock-bottom realizations as a young man. The
understanding he took from them is expressed timelessly in his book A
Far ewell to Arms.  He wrote, “The world breaks every one and afterward
many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills.”
The world can show you the truth, but no one can force you to accept it.
In 12-step groups, almost all the steps are about suppressing the ego and
clearing out the entitlements and baggage and wreckage that has been
accumulated—so that you might see what’ s left when all of that is stripped
away and the real you is left.
It’ s always so tempting to turn to that old friend denial (which is your
ego refusing to believe that what you don’ t like could be true).
Psychologists often say that threatened egotism is one of the most
dangerous forces on earth. The gang member whose “honor” is impugned.
The narcissist who is rejected. The bully who is made to feel shame. The
impostor who is exposed. The plagiarist or the embellisher whose story
stops adding up.
These are not people you want to be near when they are cornered. Nor is
it a corner you would want to back yourself into. That’ s where you get:How can these people talk to me this way? Who do they think they ar e? I’ll
make them all pay .
Sometimes because we can’ t face what’ s been said or what’ s been done,
we do the unthinkable in response to the unbearable: we escalate. This is
ego in its purest and most toxic form.
Look at Lance Armstrong. He cheated, but so did a lot of people. It was
when this cheating was made public and he was forced to see—if only for a
second—that he was a cheater  that things got really bad. He insisted on
denying it despite all the evidence. He insisted on ruining other people’ s
lives. W e’re so afraid to lose our own esteem or , God forbid, the esteem of
others, that we contemplate doing terrible things.
“Everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to
the light, lest his works should be exposed,” reads John 3:20. Big and small,
this is what we do. Getting hit with that spotlight doesn’ t feel good—
whether we’re talking the exposure of ordinary self-deception or true evil—
but turning away only delays the reckoning. For how long, no one can say .
Face the symptoms. Cure the disease. Ego makes it so hard—it’ s easier
to delay , to double down, to deliberately avoid seeing the changes we need
to make in our lives.
But change begins by hearing the criticism and the words of the people
around you. Even if those words are mean spirited, angry , or hurtful. It
means weighing them, discarding the ones that don’ t matter , and reflecting
on the ones you do.
In Fight Club , the character has to firebomb his own apartment to finally
break through. Our expectations and exaggerations and lack of restraint
made such moments inevitable, ensuring that it would be painful. Now it’ s
here, what will you make of it? Y ou can change, or you can deny .
V ince Lombardi said this once: “A team, like men, must be brought to its
knees before it can rise again.” So yes, hitting bottom is as brutal as it
sounds.
But the feeling after—it is one of the most powerful perspectives in the
world. President Obama described it as he neared the end of his tumultuous,
trying terms. “I’ve been in the barrel tumbling down Niagara Falls and I
emer ged, and I lived, and that’ s such a liberating feeling.”
If we could help it, it would be better if we never suf fered illusions at all.
It’d be better if we never had to kneel or go over the edge. That’ s whatwe’ve spent so much time talking about so far in this book. If that fight is
lost, we end up here.
In the end, the only way you can appreciate your progress is to stand on
the edge of the hole you dug for yourself, look down inside it, and smile
