intentioned, but inef fective self.IFOLLOW THE CANV AS STRA TEGY
Great men have almost always shown themselves as ready to obey as they afterwards
proved able to command.
— L O R D  M A H O N
n the Roman system of art and science, there existed a concept for which
we have only a partial analog. Successful businessmen, politicians, or
rich playboys would subsidize a number of writers, thinkers, artists, and
performers. More than just being paid to produce works of art, these artists
performed a number of tasks in exchange for protection, food, and gifts.
One of the roles was that of an anteambulo— literally meaning “one who
clears the path.” An anteambulo  proceeded in front of his patron anywhere
they traveled in Rome, making way , communicating messages, and
generally making the patron’ s life easier .
The famous epigrammist Martial fulfilled this role for many years,
serving for a time under the patron Mela, a wealthy businessman and
brother of the Stoic philosopher and political adviser Seneca. Born without
a rich family , Martial also served under another businessman named
Petilius. As a young writer , he spent most of his day traveling from the
home of one rich patron to another , providing services, paying his respects,
and receiving small token payments and favors in return.
Here’ s the problem: like most of us with our internships and entry-level
positions (or later on, publishers or bosses or clients), Martial absolutely
hated every minute of it. He seemed to believe that this system somehow
made him a slave. Aspiring to live like some country squire, like the patrons
he serviced, Martial wanted money and an estate that was all his own.
There, he dreamed, he could finally produce his works in peace and
independence. As a result, his writing often drags with a hatred andbitterness about Rome’ s upper crust, from which he believed he was cruelly
shunted aside.
For all his impotent rage, what Martial couldn’ t see was that it was his
unique position as an outsider to society that gave him such fascinating
insight into Roman culture that it survives to this day . Instead of being
pained by such a system, what if he’d been able to come to terms with it?
What if—gasp—he could have appreciated the opportunities it of fered?
Nope. It seemed to eat him up inside instead.
It’ s a common attitude that transcends generations and societies. The
angry , unappreciated genius is forced to do stuf f she doesn’ t like, for people
she doesn’ t respect, as she makes her way in the world. How dar e they for ce
me to gr ovel like this! The injustice! The waste!
W e see it in recent lawsuits in which interns sue their employers for pay .
W e see kids more willing to live at home with their parents than to submit
to something they’re “overqualified” to work for . W e see it in an inability to
meet anyone else on their terms, an unwillingness to take a step back in
order to potentially take several steps forward. I will not let them get one
over on me. I’d  rather we both have nothing instead.
It’ s worth taking a look at the supposed indignities of “serving” someone
else. Because in reality , not only is the apprentice model responsible for
some of the greatest art in the history of the world—everyone from
Michelangelo to Leonardo da V inci to Benjamin Franklin has been forced
to navigate such a system—but if you’re going to be the big deal you think
you are going to be, isn’ t this a rather trivial temporary imposition?
When someone gets his first job or joins a new or ganization, he’ s often
given this advice: Make other people look good and you will do well. Keep
your head down, they say , and serve your boss. Naturally , this is not what
the kid who was chosen over all the other kids for the position wants to
hear . It’ s not what a Harvard grad expects—after all, they got that degree
precisely to avoid this supposed indignity .
Let’ s flip it around so it doesn’ t seem so demeaning: It’ s not about
kissing ass. It’ s not about making someone look  good. It’ s about providing
the support so that others can be  good. The better wording for the advice is
this: Find canvases for other people to paint on. Be an anteambulo.  Clear
the path for the people above you and you will eventually create a path for
yourself.When you are just starting out, we can be sure of a few fundamental
realities: 1) Y ou’re not nearly as good or as important as you think you are;
2) Y ou have an attitude that needs to be readjusted; 3) Most of what you
think you know or most of what you learned in books or in school is out of
date or wrong.
There’ s one fabulous way to work all that out of your system: attach
yourself to people and or ganizations who are already successful and
subsume your identity into theirs and move both forward simultaneously .
It’ s certainly more glamorous to pursue your own glory—though hardly as
ef fective. Obeisance is the way forward.
That’ s the other ef fect of this attitude: it reduces your ego at a critical
time in your career , letting you absorb everything you can without the
obstructions that block others’ vision and progress.
No one is endorsing sycophancy . Instead, it’ s about seeing what goes on
from the inside, and looking for opportunities for someone other than
yourself.  Remember that anteambulo  means clearing the path—finding the
direction someone already intended to head and helping them pack, freeing
them up to focus on their strengths. In fact, making things better rather than
simply looking as if you are.
Many people know of Benjamin Franklin’ s famous pseudonymous
letters written under names like Silence Dogwood. What a clever young
prodigy , they think, and miss the most impressive part entirely: Franklin
wrote those letters, submitted them by sliding them under the print-shop
door , and received absolutely no credit for them until much later in his life.
In fact, it was his brother , the owner , who profited from their immense
popularity , regularly running them on the front page of his newspaper .
Franklin was playing the long game, though—learning how public opinion
worked, generating awareness of what he believed in, crafting his style and
tone and wit. It was a strategy he used time and again over his career—once
even publishing in his competitor ’ s paper in order to undermine a third
competitor—for Franklin saw the constant benefit in making other  people
look good and letting them take credit for your ideas.
Bill Belichick, the four -time Super Bowl–winning head coach of the
New England Patriots, made his way up the ranks of the NFL by loving and
mastering the one part of the job that coaches disliked at the time: analyzing
film. His first job in professional football, for the Baltimore Colts, was onehe volunteered to take without pay—and his insights, which provided
ammunition and critical strategies for the game, were attributed exclusively
to the more senior coaches. He thrived on what was considered grunt work,
asked for it and strove to become the best at precisely what others thought
they were too good for . “He was like a sponge, taking it all in, listening to
everything,” one coach said. “Y ou gave him an assignment and he
disappeared into a room and you didn’ t see him again until it was done, and
then he wanted to do more,” said another . As you can guess, Belichick
started getting paid very soon.
Before that, as a young high school player , he was so knowledgeable
about the game that he functioned as a sort of assistant coach even while
playing the game. Belichick’ s father , himself an assistant football coach for
Navy , taught him a critical lesson in football politics: that if he wanted to
give his coach feedback or question a decision, he needed to do it in private
and self-ef facingly so as not to of fend his superior . He learned how to be a
rising star without threatening or alienating anyone. In other words, he had
mastered the canvas strategy .
Y ou can see how easily entitlement and a sense of superiority (the
trappings of ego) would have made the accomplishments of either of these
men impossible. Franklin would never have been published if he’d
prioritized credit over creative expression—indeed, when his brother found
out, he literally beat him out of jealousy and anger . Belichick would have
pissed of f his coach and then probably been benched if he had one-upped
him in public. He certainly wouldn’ t have taken his first job for free, and he
wouldn’ t have sat through thousands of hours of film if he cared about
status. Greatness comes from humble beginnings; it comes from grunt
work. It means you’re the least important person in the room—until you
change that with results.
There is an old saying, “Say little, do much.” What we really ought to do
is update and apply a version of that to our early approach. Be lesser , do
mor e. Imagine if for every person you met, you thought of some way to
help them, something you could do for them? And you looked at it in a way
that entirely benefited them and not you. The cumulative ef fect this would
have over time would be profound: Y ou’d learn a great deal by solving
diverse problems. Y ou’d develop a reputation for being indispensable.Y ou’d have countless new relationships. Y ou’d have an enormous bank of
favors to call upon down the road.
That’ s what the canvas strategy is about—helping yourself by helping
others. Making a concerted ef fort to trade your short-term gratification for a
longer -term payof f. Whereas everyone else wants to get credit and be
“respected,” you can for get credit. Y ou can for get it so hard that you’re glad
when others get it instead of you—that was your aim, after all. Let the
others take their credit on credit, while you defer and earn interest on the
principal.
The strategy  part of it is the hardest. It’ s easy to be bitter , like Martial. T o
hate even the thought of subservience. T o despise those who have more
means, more experience, or more status than you. T o tell yourself that every
second not spent doing your work, or working on yourself, is a waste of
your gift. T o insist, I will not be demeaned like this.
Once we fight this emotional and egotistical impulse, the canvas strategy
is easy . The iterations are endless.
Maybe it’ s coming up with ideas to hand over to your boss.
Find people, thinkers, up-and-comers to introduce them to
each other . Cross wires to create new sparks.
Find what nobody else wants to do and do it.
Find inef ficiencies and waste and redundancies. Identify leaks
and patches to free up resources for new areas.
Produce more than everyone else and give your ideas away
In other words, discover opportunities to promote their creativity , find
outlets and people for collaboration, and eliminate distractions that hinder
their progress and focus. It is a rewarding and infinitely scalable power
strategy . Consider each one an investment in relationships and in your own
development.
The canvas strategy is there for you at any time. There is no expiration
date on it either . It’ s one of the few that age does not limit—on either side,
young or old. Y ou can start at any time—before you have a job, before
you’re hired and while you’re doing something else, or if you’re starting
something new or find yourself inside an or ganization without strong alliesor support. Y ou may even find that there’ s no reason to ever stop doing it,
even once you’ve graduated to heading your own projects. Let it become
natural and permanent; let others apply it to you while you’re too busy
applying it to those above you.
Because if you pick up this mantle once, you’ll see what most people’ s
egos prevent them from appreciating: the person who clears the path
