Honestly , not many paths do.IGET OUT OF YOUR OWN HEAD
A person who thinks all the time has nothing to think about except thoughts, so he
loses touch with reality and lives in a world of illusions.
— A L A N  W A T T S
t is Holden Caulfield, the self-absorbed boy walking the streets of
Manhattan, struggling to adjust to the world. It is a young Arturo Bandini
in Los Angeles, alienating every person he meets as he tries to become a
famous writer . It is the blue blood Binx Bolling in 1950s uptown New
Orleans, trying to escape the “everydayness” of life.
These fictional characters all had something in common: they couldn’ t
get out of their own heads.
In J. D. Salinger ’ s The Catcher in the R ye , Holden can’ t stay in school, is
petrified of growing up, and wants desperately to get away from it all. In
John Fante’ s Ask the Dust  (part of a series known as The Bandini Quartet ),
this young writer doesn’ t experience  the life he is living, he sees it all
“across a page in a typewriter ,” wondering if nearly every second of his life
is a poem, a play , a story , a news article with him as its main character . In
W alker Percy’ s The Moviegoer , his protagonist, Binx, is addicted to
watching movies, preferring an idealized version of life on the screen to his
own uncomfortable ennui.
It’ s always dangerous to psychologize a writer based on his work, but
these are famously autobiographical novels. When we look at the writers’
lives, the facts are clear: J. D. Salinger really did suf fer from a sort of self-
obsession and immaturity that made the world too much for him to bear ,
driving him from human contact and paralyzing his genius. John Fante
struggled to reconcile his enormous ego and insecurity with relative
obscurity for most of his career , eventually abandoning his novels for thegolf course and Hollywood bars. Only near death, blind with diabetes, was
he finally able to get serious again. The Moviegoer ,  W alker Percy’ s first
book, came only after he’d conquered his almost teenage indolence and
existential crisis, which lasted alarmingly into his forties.
How much better could these writers have been had they managed to get
through these troubles earlier? How much easier would their lives have
been? It’ s an ur gent question they pushed onto their readers with their
cautionary characters.
Because sadly , this trait, the inability to get out of one’ s head, is not
restricted to fiction. T wenty-four hundred years ago, Plato spoke of the type
of people who are guilty of “feasting on their own thoughts.” It was
apparently common enough even then to find people who “instead of
finding out how something they desire might actually come about, [they]
pass that over , so as to avoid tiring deliberations about what’ s possible.
They assume that what they desire is available and proceed to arrange the
rest, taking pleasure in thinking through everything they’ll do when they
have what they want, thereby making their lazy souls even lazier .” Real
people preferring to live in passionate fiction than in actual reality .
The Civil W ar general Geor ge McClellan is the perfect example of this
archetype. He was chosen to command the Union forces because he
checked all the boxes of what a great general should be: W est Point grad,
proven in battle, a student of history , of regal bearing, loved by his men.
Why did he turn out to be quite possibly the worst Union general, even
in a crowded field of incompetent and self-absorbed leaders? Because he
could never get out of his own head. He was in love with his vision of
himself as the head of a grand army . He could prepare an army for battle
like a professional, but when it came to lead  one into battle, when the
rubber needed to meet the road, troubles arose.
He became laughably convinced that the enemy was growing lar ger and
lar ger (it wasn’ t—at one point he actually had a three-times advantage ). He
was convinced of constant threats and intrigues from his political allies
(there weren’ t any). He was convinced that the only way to win the war was
with the perfect plan and a single decisive campaign (he was wrong). He
was so convinced of all of it that he froze and basically did nothing . . . for
months at a time.McClellan was constantly thinking about himself  and how wonderful he
was doing—congratulating himself for victories not yet won, and more
often, horrible defeats he had saved the cause from. When anyone—
including his superiors—questioned this comforting fiction, he reacted like
a petulant, delusional, vainglorious, and selfish ass. By itself that’ s
insuf ferable, but it meant another thing: his personality made it impossible
to do what he needed to do most—win battles.
A historian who fought under McClellan at Antietam later summed it up:
“His egotism is simply colossal—there is no other word for it.” W e tend to
think that ego equals confidence, which is what we need to be in char ge . In
fact, it can have the opposite ef fect. In McClellan’ s case it deprived him of
the ability to lead. It robbed him of the ability to think that he even needed
to act.
The repeated opportunities he missed would be laughable were it not for
the thousands and thousands of lives they cost. The situation was made
worse by the fact that two pious, quiet Southerners—Lee and Stonewall
Jackson—with a penchant for taking the initiative were able to embarrass
him with inferior numbers and inferior resources. Which is what happens
when leaders get stuck in their own heads. It can happen to us too.
The novelist Anne Lamott describes that ego story well. “If you are not
careful,” she warns young writers, “station KFKD (K-Fucked) will play in
your head twenty-four hours a day , nonstop, in stereo.”
Out of the right speaker in your inner ear will come the endless
stream of self-aggrandizement, the recitation of one’ s specialness, of
how much more open and gifted and brilliant and knowing and
misunderstood and humble one is. Out of the left speaker will be the
rap songs of self-loathing, the lists of all the things one doesn’ t do
well, of all the mistakes one has made today and over an entire
lifetime, the doubt, the assertion that everything that one touches
turns to shit, that one doesn’ t do relationships well, that one is in
every way a fraud, incapable of selfless love, that one had no talent or
insight, and on and on and on.Anyone—particularly the ambitious—can fall prey to this narration,
good and bad. It is natural for any young, ambitious person (or simply
someone whose ambition is young) to get excited and swept up by their
thoughts and feelings. Especially in a world that tells us to keep and
promote a “personal brand.” W e’re required to tell stories in order to sell
our work and our talents, and after enough time, for get where the line is that
separates our fictions from reality .
Ultimately this disability will paralyze us. Or it will become a wall
between us and the information we need to do our jobs—which is lar gely
why McClellan continually fell for flawed intelligence reports he ought to
have known were wrong. The idea that his task was relatively
straightforward, that he just needed to get started, was almost too easy and
too obvious to someone who had thought so much about it all.
He’ s not that dif ferent from the rest of us. W e’re all full of anxieties,
doubts, impotence, pains, and sometimes a little tinge of crazy . W e’re like
teenagers in this regard.
As the psychologist David Elkind has famously researched, adolescence
is marked by a phenomenon known now as the “imaginary audience.”
Consider a thirteen-year -old so embarrassed that he misses a week of class,
positive that the entire school is thinking and murmuring about some tiny
incident that in truth hardly anyone noticed. Or a teenage girl who spends
three hours in front of the mirror each morning, as if she’ s about to go on
stage. They do this because they’re convinced that their every move is
being watched with rapt attention by the rest of the world.
Even as adults, we’re susceptible to this fantasy during a harmless walk
down the street. W e plug in some headphones and all of a sudden there’ s a
soundtrack. W e flip up our jacket collar and consider briefly how cool we
must look. W e replay the successful meeting we’re heading towar d  in our
head. The crowds part as we pass. W e’re fearless warriors, on our way to
the top.
It’ s the opening credits montage. It’ s a scene in a novel. It feels good—
so much better than those feelings of doubt and fear and normalness—and
so we stay stuck inside our heads instead of participating in the world
around us.
That’ s ego, baby .What successful people do is curb such flights of fancy . They ignore the
temptations that might make them feel important or skew their perspective.
General Geor ge C. Marshall—essentially the opposite of McClellan even
though they briefly held the same position a few generations apart—refused
to keep a diary during W orld W ar II despite the requests of historians and
friends. He worried that it would turn his quiet, reflective time into a sort of
performance and self-deception. That he might second-guess dif ficult
decisions out of concern for his reputation and future readers and warp his
thinking based on how they would look.
All of us are susceptible to these obsessions of the mind—whether we
run a technology startup or are working our way up the ranks of the
corporate hierarchy or have fallen madly in love. The more creative we are,
the easier it is to lose the thread that guides us.
Our imagination—in many senses an asset—is dangerous when it runs
wild. W e have to rein our perceptions in. Otherwise, lost in the excitement,
how can we accurately predict the future or interpret events? How can we
stay hungry and aware? How can we appreciate the present moment? How
can we be creative within the realm of practicality?
Living clearly and presently takes courage. Don’ t live in the haze of the
abstract, live with the tangible and real, even if—especially if—it’ s
uncomfortable. Be part of what’ s going on around you. Feast on it, adjust
for it.
There’ s no one to perform for . There is just work to be done and lessons
