liberated to accomplish  the world-changing work you’ve set out to achieve.MINTRODUCTION
The first principle is that you must not fool yourself—and you are the easiest person to
fool.
— R I C H A R D  F E Y N M A N
aybe you’re young and brimming with ambition. Maybe you’re
young and you’re struggling. Maybe you’ve made that first couple
million, signed your first deal, been selected to some elite group, or maybe
you’re already accomplished enough to last a lifetime. Maybe you’re
stunned to find out how empty it is at the top. Maybe you’re char ged with
leading others through a crisis. Maybe you just got fired. Maybe you just hit
rock bottom.
Wherever you are, whatever you’re doing, your worst enemy already
lives inside you: your ego.
“Not me,” you think. “No one would ever call me an egomaniac.”
Perhaps you’ve always thought of yourself as a pretty balanced person. But
for people with ambitions, talents, drives, and potential to fulfill, ego comes
with the territory . Precisely what makes us so promising as thinkers, doers,
creatives, and entrepreneurs, what drives us to the top of those fields, makes
us vulnerable to this darker side of the psyche.
Now this is not a book about ego in the Freudian sense. Freud was fond
of explaining the ego by way of analogy—our ego was the rider on a horse,
with our unconscious drives representing the animal while the ego tried to
direct them. Modern psychologists, on the other hand, use the word
“egotist” to refer to someone dangerously focused on themselves and with
disregard for anyone else. All these definitions are true enough but of little
value outside a clinical setting.The ego we see most commonly goes by a more casual definition: an
unhealthy belief in our own importance. Arrogance. Self-centered ambition.
That’ s the definition this book will use. It’ s that petulant child inside every
person, the one that chooses getting his or her way over anything or anyone
else. The need to be  better  than, mor e than, r ecognized for , far past any
reasonable utility—that’ s ego. It’ s the sense of superiority and certainty that
exceeds the bounds of confidence and talent.
It’ s when the notion of ourselves and the world grows so inflated that it
begins to distort the reality that surrounds us. When, as the football coach
Bill W alsh explained, “self-confidence becomes arrogance, assertiveness
becomes obstinacy , and self-assurance becomes reckless abandon.” This is
the ego, as the writer Cyril Connolly warned, that “sucks us down like the
law of gravity .”
In this way , ego is the enemy of what you want and of what you have: Of
mastering a craft. Of real creative insight. Of working well with others. Of
building loyalty and support. Of longevity . Of repeating and retaining your
success. It repulses advantages and opportunities. It’ s a magnet for enemies
and errors. It is Scylla and Charybdis.
Most of us aren’ t “egomaniacs,” but ego is there at the root of almost
every conceivable problem and obstacle, from why we can’ t win to why we
need to win all the time and at the expense of others. From why we don’ t
have what we want to why having what we want doesn’ t seem to make us
feel any better .
W e don’ t usually see it this way . W e think something else is to blame for
our problems (most often, other people). W e are, as the poet Lucretius put it
a few thousand years ago, the proverbial “sick man ignorant of the cause of
his malady .” Especially for successful people who can’ t see what ego
prevents them from doing because all they can see is what they’ve already
done.
W ith every ambition and goal we have—big or small—ego is there
undermining us on the very journey we’ve put everything into pursuing.
The pioneering CEO Harold Geneen compared egoism to alcoholism:
“The egotist does not stumble about, knocking things of f his desk. He does
not stammer or drool. No, instead, he becomes more and more arrogant, and
some people, not knowing what is underneath such an attitude, mistake his
arrogance for a sense of power and self-confidence.” Y ou could say theystart to mistake that about themselves too, not realizing the disease they’ve
contracted or that they’re killing themselves with it.
If ego is the voice that tells us we’re better than we really are, we can say
ego inhibits true success by preventing a direct and honest connection to the
world around us. One of the early members of Alcoholics Anonymous
defined ego as “a conscious separation fr om. ” From what? Everything.
The ways this separation manifests itself negatively are immense: W e
can’ t work with other people if we’ve put up walls. W e can’ t improve the
world if we don’ t understand it or ourselves. W e can’ t take or receive
feedback if we are incapable of or uninterested in hearing from outside
sources. W e can’ t recognize opportunities—or create them—if instead of
seeing what is in front of us, we live inside our own fantasy . W ithout an
accurate accounting of our own abilities compared to others, what we have
is not confidence but delusion. How are we supposed to reach, motivate, or
lead other people if we can’ t relate to their needs—because we’ve lost touch
with our own?
The performance artist Marina Abramović puts it directly: “If you start
believing in your greatness, it is the death of your creativity .”
Just one thing keeps ego around—comfort. Pursuing great work—
whether it is in sports or art or business—is often terrifying. Ego soothes
that fear . It’ s a salve to that insecurity . Replacing the rational and aware
parts of our psyche with bluster and self-absorption, ego tells us what we
want to hear , when we want to hear it.
But it is a short-term fix with a long-term consequence.
EGO W AS AL W A YS THERE. NOW IT’S EMBOLDENED.
Now more than ever , our culture fans the flames of ego. It’ s never been
easier to talk, to puf f ourselves up. W e can brag about our goals to millions
of our fans and followers—things only rock stars and cult leaders used to
have. W e can follow and interact with our idols on T witter , we can read
books and sites and watch TED T alks, drink from a fire hose of inspiration
and validation like never before (there’ s an app for that). W e can name
ourselves CEO of our exists-only-on-paper company . W e can announce big
news on social media and let the congratulations roll in. W e can publisharticles about ourselves in outlets that used to be sources of objective
journalism.
Some of us do this more than others. But it’ s only a matter of degree.
Besides the changes in technology , we’re told to believe in our
uniqueness above all else. W e’re told to think big, live big, to be memorable
and “dare greatly .” W e think that success requires a bold vision or some
sweeping plan—after all, that’ s what the founders of this company or that
championship team supposedly had. (But did they? Did they really?) W e
see risk-taking swagger and successful people in the media, and eager for
our own successes, try to reverse engineer the right attitude, the right pose.
W e intuit a causal relationship that isn’ t there. W e assume the symptoms
of success are the same as success itself—and in our naiveté, confuse the
by-product with the cause.
Sure, ego has worked for some. Many of history’ s most famous men and
women were notoriously egotistical. But so were many of its greatest
failures. Far more of them, in fact. But here we are with a culture that ur ges
us to roll the dice. T o make the gamble, ignoring the stakes.
WHEREVER YOU ARE, EGO IS T OO.
At any given time in life, people find themselves at one of three stages.
W e’re aspiring to something—trying to make a dent in the universe. W e
have achieved success—perhaps a little, perhaps a lot. Or we have failed—
recently or continually . Most of us are in these stages in a fluid sense—
we’re aspiring until we succeed, we succeed until we fail or until we aspire
to more, and after we fail we can begin to aspire or succeed again.
Ego is the enemy every step along this way . In a sense, ego is the enemy
of building, of maintaining, and of recovering. When things come fast and
easy , this might be fine. But in times of change, of dif ficulty . . .
And therefore, the three parts that this book is or ganized into: Aspire.
Success. Failure.
The aim of that structure is simple: to help you suppress ego early before
bad habits take hold, to replace the temptations of ego with humility and
discipline when we experience success, and to cultivate strength and
fortitude so that when fate turns against you, you’re not wrecked by failure.
In short, it will help us be:Humble in our aspirations
Gracious in our success
Resilient in our failures
This is not to say that you’re not unique and that you don’ t have
something amazing to contribute in your short time on this planet. This is
not to say that there is not room to push past creative boundaries, to invent,
to feel inspired, or to aim for truly ambitious change and innovation. On the
contrary , in order to properly do these things and take these risks we need
balance. As the Quaker W illiam Penn observed, “Buildings that lie so
exposed to the weather need a good foundation.”
SO, WHA T NOW?
This book you hold in your hands is written around one optimistic
assumption: Y our ego is not some power you’re forced to satiate at every
turn. It can be managed. It can be directed.
In this book, we’ll look at individuals like W illiam T ecumseh Sherman,
Katharine Graham, Jackie Robinson, Eleanor Roosevelt, Bill W alsh,
Benjamin Franklin, Belisarius, Angela Merkel, and Geor ge C. Marshall.
Could they have accomplished what they accomplished—saving faltering
companies, advancing the art of war , integrating baseball, revolutionizing
football of fense, standing up to tyranny , bravely bearing misfortune—if ego
had left them ungrounded and self-absorbed? It was their sense of reality
and awareness—one that the author and strategist Robert Greene once said
we must take to like a spider in its web—that was at the core of their great
art, great writing, great design, great business, great marketing, and great
leadership.
What we find when we study these individuals is that they were
grounded, circumspect, and unflinchingly real. Not that any of them were
wholly without ego. But they knew how to suppress it, channel it, subsume
it when it counted. They were great yet humble.
W ait,  but so-and-so  had a huge ego and was successful . But what about
Steve Jobs? What about Kanye W est?
W e can seek to rationalize the worst behavior by pointing to outliers. But
no one is truly successful because  they are delusional, self-absorbed, ordisconnected. Even if these traits are correlated or associated with certain
well-known individuals, so are a few others: addiction, abuse (of
themselves and others), depression, mania. In fact, what we see when we
study these people is that they did their best work in the moments when
they fought back against these impulses, disorders, and flaws. Only when
free of ego and baggage can anyone perform to their utmost.
For this reason, we’re also going to look at individuals like Howard
Hughes, the Persian king Xerxes, John DeLorean, Alexander the Great, and
at the many cautionary tales of others who lost their grip on reality and in
the process made it clear what a gamble ego can be. W e’ll look at the costly
lessons they learned and the price they paid in misery and self-destruction.
W e’ll look at how often even the most successful people vacillate between
humility and ego and the problems this causes.
When we remove ego, we’re left with what is real. What replaces ego is
humility , yes—but rock-hard humility and confidence. Whereas ego is
artificial, this type of confidence can hold weight. Ego is stolen. Confidence
is earned. Ego is self-anointed, its swagger is artifice. One is girding
yourself, the other gaslighting. It’ s the dif ference between potent and
poisonous.
As you’ll see in the pages that follow , that self-confidence took an
unassuming and underestimated general and turned him into America’ s
foremost warrior and strategist during the Civil W ar . Ego took a dif ferent
general from the heights of power and influence after that same war and
drove him to destitution and ignominy . One took a quiet, sober German
scientist and made her not just a new kind of leader but a force for peace.
The other took two dif ferent but equally brilliant and bold engineering
minds of the twentieth century and built them up in a whirlwind of hype
and celebrity before dashing their hopes against the rocks of failure,
bankruptcy , scandal, and insanity . One guided one of the worst teams in
NFL history to the Super Bowl in three seasons, and then on to be one of
most dominant dynasties in the game. Meanwhile, countless other coaches,
politicians, entrepreneurs, and writers have overcome similar odds—only to
succumb to the more inevitable probability of handing the top spot right
back to someone else.
Some learn humility . Some choose ego. Some are prepared for the
vicissitudes of fate, both positive and negative. Others are not. Which willyou choose? Who will you be?
Y ou’ve picked up this book because you sense that you’ll need to answer
this question eventually , consciously or not.
