place.OMAINT AIN YOUR OWN SCORECARD
I never look back, except to find out about mistakes . . . I only see danger in thinking
back about things you are proud of.
— E L I S A B E T H  N O E L L E - N E U M A N N
n April 16, 2000, the New England Patriots drafted an extra
quarterback out of the University of Michigan. They’d scouted him
thoroughly and had their eye on him for some time. Seeing that he was still
available, they took him. It was the 6th round and the 199th pick of the
draft.
The young quarterback’ s name was T om Brady .
He was fourth string at the beginning of his rookie season. By his second
season, he was a starter . New England won the Super Bowl that year . Brady
was named MVP .
In terms of return on investment, it’ s probably the single greatest draft
pick in the history of football: four Super Bowl rings (out of 6
appearances), 14 starting seasons, 172 wins, 428 touchdowns, 3 Super Bowl
MVPs, 58,000 yards, 10 Pro Bowls, and more division titles than any
quarterback in history . It’ s not even finished paying dividends. Brady may
still have many more seasons left in him.
So you’d think that the Patriots’ front of fice would be ecstatic with how
it turned out, and indeed, they were. They were also disappointed—deeply
so—in themselves. Brady’ s surprising abilities meant that the Patriots’
scouting reports were way of f. For all their evaluations of players, they’d
somehow missed or miscalculated all of his intangible attributes. They’d let
this gem wait until the sixth r ound.  Someone else could have drafted him.
More than that, they didn’ t even know they were right about Brady untilinjuries knocked out Drew Bledsoe, their prized starter , and forced them to
realize his potential.
So, even though their bet paid of f, the Patriots honed in on the specific
intelligence failure that could have prevented the pick from happening in
the first place. Not that they were nit-picking. Or indulging in
perfectionism. They had higher standards of performance to adhere to.
For years, Scott Pioli, director of personnel for the Patriots, kept a photo
on his desk of Dave Stachelski, a player the team had drafted in the 5th
round, but who never made it through training camp. It was a reminder:
Y ou’re not as good as you think. Y ou don’ t have it all figured out. Stay
focused. Do better .
Coach John W ooden was very clear about this too. The scoreboard was
not the judge of whether he or the team had achieved success—that wasn’ t
what constituted “winning.” Bo Jackson wouldn’ t get impressed when he
hit a home run or ran for a touchdown because he knew “he hadn’ t done it
perfect. ” (In fact, he didn’ t ask for the ball after his first hit in major -league
baseball for that reason—to him it was “just a ground ball up the middle.”)
This is characteristic of how great people think. It’ s not that they find
failure in every success. They just hold themselves to a standard that
exceeds what society might consider to be objective success. Because of
that, they don’ t much care what other people think; they care whether they
meet their own standards. And these standards are much, much higher than
everyone else’ s.
The Patriots saw the Brady pick as being more lucky than smart. And
though some people are fine giving themselves credit for luck, they weren’ t.
No one would say the Patriots—or any team in the NFL—are without ego.
But in this instance, instead of celebrating or congratulating themselves,
they put their heads back down and focused on how to get even  better .
That’ s what makes humility such a powerful force—or ganizationally ,
personally , professionally .
This isn’ t necessarily fun, by the way . It can feel like self-inflicted
torture sometimes. But it does force you to always keep going, and always
improve.
Ego can’ t see both sides of the issue. It can’ t get better because it only
sees the validation. Remember , “V ain men never hear anything but praise.”It can only see what’ s going well, not what isn’ t. It’ s why you might see
egomaniacs with temporary leads, but rarely lasting runs of it.
For us, the scoreboard can’ t be the only scoreboard. W arren Buf fett has
said the same thing, making a distinction between the inner scorecard and
the external one. Y our potential, the absolute best you’re capable of—that’ s
the metric to measure yourself against. Y our standards are. W inning is not
enough. People can get lucky and win. People can be assholes and win.
Anyone can win. But not everyone is the best possible version of
themselves.
Harsh, yes. The flip side is that it means being honestly able to be proud
and strong during the occasional defeat as well. When you take ego out of
the equation, other people’ s opinions and external markers won’ t matter as
much. That’ s more dif ficult, but ultimately a formula for resilience.
The economist (and philosopher) Adam Smith had a theory for how wise
and good people evaluate their actions:
There are two dif ferent occasions upon which we examine our own
conduct, and endeavour to view it in the light in which the impartial
spectator would view it: first, when we are about to act; and secondly ,
after we have acted. Our views are apt to be very partial in both cases;
but they are apt to be most partial when it is of most importance that
they should be otherwise. When we are about to act, the eagerness of
passion will seldom allow us to consider what we are doing, with the
candour of an indif ferent person. . . . When the action is over , indeed,
and the passions which prompted it have subsided, we can enter more
coolly into the sentiments of the indif ferent spectator .
This “indif ferent spectator” is a sort of guide with which we can judge
our behavior , as opposed to the groundless applause that society so often
gives out. Not that it’ s just about validation, though.
Think of all the people who excuse their behavior—politicians, powerful
CEOs, and the like—as “not technically illegal.” Think of the times that
you’ve excused your own with “no one will know .” This is the moral gray
area that our ego loves to exploit. Holding your ego against a standard
(inner or indif ferent or whatever you want to call it) makes it less and lesslikely that excess or wrongdoing is going to be tolerated by you. Because
it’ s not about what you can get away with, it’ s about what you should or
shouldn’ t do.
It’ s a harder road at first, but one that ultimately makes us less selfish
and self-absorbed. A person who judges himself based on his own standards
doesn’ t crave the spotlight the same way as someone who lets applause
dictate success. A person who can think long term doesn’ t pity herself
during short-term setbacks. A person who values the team can share credit
and subsume his own interests in a way that most others can’ t.
Reflecting on what went well or how amazing we are doesn’ t get us
anywhere, except maybe to where we are right now . But we want to go
further , we want more, we want to continue to improve.
Ego blocks that, so we subsume it and smash it with continually higher
standards. Not that we are endlessly pursuing more, as if we’re racked with
greed, but instead, we’re inching our way toward real improvement, with
