better or bigger than, go and do it again.AMAINT AIN YOUR SOBRIETY
The height of cultivation runs to simplicity .
— B R U C E  L E E
ngela Merkel is the antithesis of nearly every assumption we make
about a head of state—especially a German one. She is plain. She is
modest. She cares little for presentation or flash. She gives no fiery
speeches. She has no interest in expansion or domination. Mostly , she is
quiet and reserved.
Chancellor Angela Merkel is sober , when far too many leaders are
intoxicated—with ego, with power , with position. This sobriety is precisely
what has made her a wildly popular three-term leader and, paradoxically , a
powerful, sweeping force for freedom and peace in modern Europe.
There is a story about Merkel as a young girl, at a swimming lesson. She
walked out on the diving board and stood there, thinking about whether she
should jump. Minutes ticked by . More minutes. Finally , just as the bell
marking the end of the lesson began to ring, she jumped. W as she afraid or
just cautious? Many years later , she would remind Europe’ s leaders during a
major crisis that “Fear is a bad advisor .” As a kid on that diving board, she
wanted to use every allotted second to make the right  decision, not driven
by recklessness or fear .
In most cases, we think that people become successful through sheer
ener gy and enthusiasm. W e almost excuse ego because we think it’ s part
and parcel of the personality required to “make it big.” Maybe a bit of that
overpoweringness is what got you where you are. But let’ s ask: Is it really
sustainable for the next several decades? Can you really outwork and outrun
everyone for ever ?The answer is no. The ego tells us we’re invincible, that we have
unlimited force that will never dissipate. But that can’ t be what greatness
requires—ener gy without end?
Merkel is the embodiment of Aesop’ s fable about the tortoise. She is
slow and steady . The historic night the Berlin W all fell, she was thirty-five.
She had one beer , went to bed, and showed up early for work the next day .
A few years later , she had worked to become a respected but obscure
physicist. Only then did she enter politics. In her fifties, she became
chancellor . It was a diligent, plodding path.
Y et the rest of us want to get to the top as fast as humanly possible. W e
have no patience for waiting. W e’re high on getting high up the ranks. Once
we’ve made it, we tend to think that ego and ener gy is the only way to stay
there. It’ s not.
When Russian president Vladimir Putin once attempted to intimidate
Merkel by letting his lar ge hunting dog bar ge into a meeting (she is
reportedly not a dog lover), she didn’ t flinch and later joked about it. As a
result, he was the one who looked foolish and insecure. During her rise and
especially during her time in power , she has consistently maintained her
equilibrium and clearheadedness, regardless of the immediate stressors or
stimuli.
In a similar position, we might have sprung into “bold” action; we might
have gotten angry or drawn a line in the sand. W e have to stand up for
ourselves, right? But do we? So often, this is just ego, escalating tension
more than dealing with it. Merkel is firm, clear , and patient. She’ s willing to
compromise on everything except the principle at stake—which far too
many people lose sight of.
That is sobriety . That is command of oneself.
She did not become the most powerful woman in the W estern world by
accident. More importantly , she’ s maintained her perch for three terms with
the same formula.
The great philosopher king Marcus Aurelius knew this very well. Called
to politics almost against his will, he served the Roman people in
continually higher of fices from his teens until his death. There was always
pressing business—appeals to hear , wars to fight, laws to pass, favors to
grant. He strove to escape what he called “imperialization”—the stain ofabsolute power that had wrecked previous emperors. T o do that, he wrote to
himself,  he must “fight to be the person philosophy tried to make you.”
This is why the Zen philosopher Zuigan is supposed to have called out to
himself everyday:
“ MASTER —”
“ YES , SIR ?”
Then he would add:
“ BECOM E  SOBER .”
“ YES , SIR .”
He would conclude by saying:
“ DO  N OT  BE  DECEIVED  BY  OT HERS .”
“ YES  SIR , YES  SIR .”
T oday , we might add to that:
“ DON ’ T  BE  DECEIVED  B Y  RECOGNITION  YOU  HA VE  GOTTEN  OR  THE
AMO UNT  OF  MONEY  IN  YOUR  BANK  ACCOUNT .”
W e have to fight to stay sober , despite the many dif ferent forces swirling
around our ego.
The historian Shelby Foote observed that “power doesn’ t so much
corrupt; that’ s too simple. It fragments, closes options, mesmerizes.” That’ s
what ego does. It clouds the mind precisely when it needs to be clear .
Sobriety is a counterbalance, a hangover cure—or better , a prevention
method.
Other politicians are bold and charismatic. But as Merkel supposedly
said, “Y ou can’ t solve . . . tasks with charisma.” She is rational. She
analyzes. She makes it about the situation, not about herself, as people in
power often do. Her background in science is helpful here, surely .
Politicians are often vain, obsessing about their image. Merkel is tooobjective for that. She cares about results and little else. A German writer
observed in a tribute on her fiftieth birthday that unpr etentiousness  is
Merkel’ s main weapon.
David Halberstam, writing about the Patriots’ coach Bill Belichick,
observed that the man was “not only in the steak business, he had contempt
for sizzle.” Y ou could say the same about Merkel. Leaders like Belichick
and Merkel know that steak is what wins games and moves nations forward.
Sizzle, on the other hand, makes it harder to make the right  decisions—how
to interact with others, who to promote, which plays to run, what feedback
to listen to, where to come down on an issue.
Churchill’ s Europe required one type of leader . T oday’ s interconnected
world requires its own. Because there is so much information to be sorted
through, so much competition, so much change, without a clear head . . . all
is lost.
W e’re not talking about abstinence from drugs or alcohol obviously , but
there certainly is an element of restraint to egoless sobriety—an elimination
of the unnecessary and the destructive. No more obsessing about your
image; treating people beneath you or above you with contempt; needing
first-class trappings and the star treatment; raging, fighting, preening,
performing, lording over , condescending, and marveling at your own
awesomeness or self-anointed importance.
Sobriety is the counterweight that must balance out success. Especially if
things keep getting better and better .
As James Basford remarked, “It requires a strong constitution to
withstand repeated attacks of prosperity .” W ell, that’ s where we are now .
There’ s an old line about how if you want to live happy , live hidden. It’ s
true. The problem is, that means the rest of us are deprived of really good
examples. W e’re lucky to see someone like Merkel in the public eye,
because she is the representative of a very lar ge, silent majority .
As hard as it might be to believe from what we see in the media, there
actually are some successful people with modest apartments. Like Merkel,
they have normal private lives with their spouses (her husband skipped her
first inauguration). They lack artifice, they wear normal clothes. Most
successful people are people you’ve never heard of. They want it that way .
It keeps them sober . It helps them do their jobs.HFOR WHA T OFTEN COMES NEXT , EGO IS THE ENEMY  . . .
The evidence is in, and you are the verdict.
— A N N E  L A M O T T
ere you are at the pinnacle. What have you found? Just how tough and
tricky it is to manage. Y ou thought it would get easier when you
arrived; instead, it’ s even harder—a dif ferent animal entirely . What you
found is that you must manage yourself in order to maintain your success.
The philosopher Aristotle was not unfamiliar with the worlds of ego and
power and empire. His most famous pupil was Alexander the Great, and
partially through Aristotle’ s teachings, the young man conquered the entire
known world. Alexander was brave and brilliant and often generous and
wise. Still, it’ s clear that he ignored Aristotle’ s most important lesson—and
that’ s partially why he died at age thirty-two, far from home, likely killed
by his own men, who had finally said, “Enough.”
It’ s not that he was wrong to have great ambitions. Alexander just never
grasped Aristotle’ s “golden mean”—that is, the middle ground. Repeatedly ,
Aristotle speaks of virtue and excellence as points along a spectrum.
Courage, for instance, lies between cowardice on one end and recklessness
on the other . Generosity , which we all admire, must stop short of either
profligacy and parsimony in order to be of any use. Where the line—this
golden mean—is can be dif ficult to tell, but without finding it, we risk
dangerous extremes. This is why it is so hard to be excellent, Aristotle
wrote. “In each case, it is hard work to find the intermediate; for instance,
not everyone, but only one who knows, finds the midpoint in a circle.”
W e can use the golden mean to navigate our ego and our desire to
achieve.Endless ambition is easy; anyone can put their foot down hard on the
gas. Complacency is easy too; it’ s just a matter of taking that foot off  the
gas. W e must avoid what the business strategist Jim Collins terms the
“undisciplined pursuit of more,” as well as the complacency that comes
with plaudits. T o borrow from Aristotle again, what’ s dif ficult is to apply
the right amount of pressure, at the right time, in the right way , for the right
period of time, in the right car , going in the right direction.
If we don’ t do this, the consequences can be dire.
There is a line from Napoleon, who, like Alexander , died miserably . He
said, “Men of great ambition have sought happiness . . . and have found
fame.” What he means is that behind every goal is the drive to be happy and
fulfilled—but when egotism takes hold, we lose track of our goal and end
up somewhere we never intended. Emerson, in his famous essay on
Napoleon, takes pains to point out that just a few years after his death,
Europe was essentially exactly as it was before Napoleon began his
precipitous rise. All that death, that ef fort, that greed, and those honors—for
what? For basically nothing. Napoleon, he wrote, quickly faded away , just
like the smoke from his artillery .
Howard Hughes—despite his current reputation as some kind of bold
maverick—was not a happy man, no matter how awesome his life may
seem from history or movies. When he was near death, one of his aides
sought to reassure a suf fering Hughes. “What an incredible life you have
led,” the aide said. Hughes shook his head and replied with the sad,
emphatic honesty of someone whose time has clearly come, “If you had
ever swapped places in life with me, I would be willing to bet that you
would have demanded to swap back before the passage of the first week.”
W e do not have to follow in those footsteps. W e know what decisions we
must make to avoid that ignominious, even pathetic end: protecting our
sobriety , eschewing greed and paranoia, staying humble, retaining our sense
of purpose, connecting to the lar ger world around us.
Because even if we manage ourselves well, prosperity holds no
guarantees. The world conspires against us in many ways, and the laws of
nature say that everything regresses toward the mean. In sports, the
schedule gets harder after a winning season, the bad teams get better draft
picks, and the salary cap makes it tough to keep a team together . In life,
taxes go up the more you make, and the more obligations society foists onyou. The media is harder on those it has covered before. Rumors and gossip
are the cost of renown: He’ s a drunk. She’ s gay . He’ s a hypocrite. She’ s a
bitch. The crowd roots for the underdog, and roots against the winners.
These are just facts of life. Who can af ford to add denial to all that?
Instead of letting power make us delusional and instead of taking what
we have for granted, we’d be better to spend our time preparing for the
shifts of fate that inevitably occur in life. That is, adversity , dif ficulty ,
failure.
Who knows—maybe a downturn is exactly what’ s coming next. W orse,
maybe you caused it. Just because you did something once, doesn’ t mean
you’ll be able to do it successfully forever .
Reversals and regressions are as much a part of the cycle of life as
anything else.
