So stop.IMANAGING YOURSELF
It is not enough to have great qualities; we should also have the management of them.
— L A  R O C H E F O U C A U L D
n 1953, Dwight D. Eisenhower returned from his inaugural parade and
entered the White House for the first time as president late in the
evening. As he walked into the Executive Mansion, his chief usher handed
Eisenhower two letters marked “Confidential and Secret” that had been sent
to him earlier in the day . Eisenhower ’ s reaction was swift: “Never bring me
a sealed envelope,” he said firmly . “That’ s what I have a staf f for .”
How snobbish, right? Had the of fice really gone to his head already?
Not at all. Eisenhower recognized the seemingly insignificant event for
what it was: a symptom of a disor ganized, dysfunctional or ganization. Not
everything needed to run through him. Who was to say that the envelope
was even important? Why hadn’ t anyone screened it?
As president, his first priority in of fice was or ganizing the executive
branch into a smooth, functioning, and order - driven unit, just like his
military units had been—not because he didn’ t want to work himself, but
because everyone had a job and he trusted and empowered them to do it. As
his chief of staf f later put it, “The president does the most important things.
I do the next  most important things.”
The public image of Eisenhower is of the man playing golf. In reality , he
was not someone who ever slacked of f, but the leisure time he did have was
available because he ran a tight ship. He knew that ur gent and important
were not synonyms. His job was to set the priorities, to think big picture,
and then trust the people beneath him to do the jobs they were hired for .
Most of us are not the  president, or even president of a company , but in
moving up the ladder in life, the system and work habits that got us wherewe are won’ t necessarily keep us there. When we’re aspiring or small time,
we can be idiosyncratic, we can compensate for disor ganization with hard
work and a little luck. That’ s not going to cut it in the majors. In fact, it’ll
sink you if you can’ t grow up and or ganize.
W e can contrast Eisenhower ’ s system in the White House with the
infamous car company created by John DeLorean, when he walked away
from GM to produce his brand of futuristic cars. A few decades removed
from the company’ s spectacular implosion, we can be for given for thinking
the man was just ahead of his time. In fact, his rise and fall is as timeless a
story as there is: Power -hungry narcissist undermines his own vision, and
loses millions of dollars of other people’ s money in the process.
DeLorean was convinced that the culture of order and discipline at GM
had held brilliant creatives like himself down. When he set out to found his
company , he deliberately did everything dif ferently , flouting conventional
wisdom and business practices. The result was not the freewheeling,
creative sanctuary that DeLorean naively envisioned. It was, instead, an
overbearingly political, dysfunctional, and even corrupt or ganization that
collapsed under its own weight, eventually resorting to criminality and
fraud, and losses of some $250 million.
The DeLorean failed both as a car and as a company because it was
mismanaged from top to bottom—with an emphasis on the mismanagement
at the top, by the top. That is: DeLorean himself was the problem.
Compared to Eisenhower , he worked constantly , with very dif ferent results.
As one executive put it, DeLorean “had the ability to recognize a good
opportunity but he didn’ t know how to make it happen.” Another executive
described his management style as “chasing colored balloons”—he was
constantly distracted and abandoning one project for another . He was a
genius. Sadly , that’ s rarely enough.
Though probably not on purpose, DeLorean created a culture in which
ego ran free. Convinced that continued success was simply his by right, he
seemed to bristle at concepts like discipline, or ganization, or strategic
planning. Employees were not given enough direction, and then at other
times, overwhelmed with trivial instructions. DeLorean couldn’ t delegate—
except to lackeys whose blind loyalty was prized over competence or skill.
On top of all this, he was often late or preoccupied.Executives were allowed to work on extracurricular activities on the
company dime, encouraged specifically to chase side projects that benefited
their boss at the expense of the company . As CEO, DeLorean often bent the
truth to investors, fellow of ficers, and suppliers, and this habit was
contagious throughout the company .
Like many people driven by a demon, DeLorean’ s decisions were
motivated by everything but  what would have been ef ficient, manageable,
or responsible. Instead of improving or fixing GM’ s system, it’ s as if he
threw out order altogether . What ensued was chaos in which no one
followed the rules, no one was accountable, and very little got done. The
only reason it didn’ t collapse immediately was that DeLorean was a master
of public relations—a skill that held the whole story together until the first
faulty cars came of f the assembly line.
Not surprisingly , the cars were terrible . They didn’ t work. Cost per unit
was massively over budget. They hadn’ t secured enough dealers. They
couldn’ t deliver cars to the ones they had. The launch was a disaster .
DeLorean Motor Company never recovered.
It turns out that becoming a great leader is dif ficult. Who knew?!
DeLorean couldn’ t manage himself, and so he had trouble managing
others. And so he managed to fail, both himself and the dream.
Management? That’ s the reward for all your creativity and new ideas?
Becoming the Man? Y es—in the end, we all face becoming the adult
supervision we originally rebelled against. Y et often we react petulantly and
prefer to think:  Now that I’m in char ge, things ar e going to be differ ent!
Think about Eisenhower . He was the damn president—the most
powerful man in the world. He could have kicked back and done things
how he liked. If he was disor ganized, people would have just had to deal
with it (there have been plenty of those presidents before). Y et he wasn’ t.
He understood that order and responsibility were what the country needed.
And that this far outweighed his own concerns.
What was so sad about DeLorean is that, like a lot of talented people, his
ideas were on point. His car was an exciting innovation. His model could
have worked. He had all the assets and the talent. It was his ego and the
disor ganization that resulted from it that prevented the ingredients from
coming together—just as it they do for so many of us.As you become successful in your own field, your responsibilities may
begin to change. Days become less and less about doing  and more and more
about making decisions. Such is the nature of leadership. This transition
requires reevaluating and updating your identity . It requires a certain
humility to put aside some of the more enjoyable or satisfying parts of your
previous job. It means accepting that others might be more qualified or
specialized in areas in which you considered yourself competent—or at
least their time is better spent on them than yours.
Y es, it would be more fun to be constantly involved in every tiny matter ,
and might make us feel important to be the person called to put out fires.
The little things are endlessly engaging and often flattering, while the big
picture can be hard to discern. It’ s not always fun, but it is the job. If you
don’ t think big picture—because you’re too busy playing “boss man”—who
will?
Of course, there is no “right” system. Sometimes systems are better
decentralized. Sometimes they are better in a strict hierarchy . Every project
and goal deserves an approach fitted perfectly to what needs to be done.
Maybe a creative, relaxed environment makes the most sense for what
you’re doing. Maybe you can run your business remotely , or maybe it’ s
better for everyone to see each other face-to-face.
What matters is that you learn how to manage yourself and others,
before your industry eats you alive. Micromanagers are egotists who can’ t
manage others and they quickly get overloaded. So do the charismatic
visionaries who lose interest when it’ s time to execute. W orse yet are those
who surround themselves with yes-men or sycophants who clean up their
messes and create a bubble in which they can’ t even see how disconnected
from reality they are.
Responsibility requires a readjustment and then incr eased  clarity and
purpose. First, setting the top-level goals and priorities of the or ganization
and your life. Then enforcing and observing them. T o produce results and
only results.
