every one of them lives in a world he was lar gely responsible for shaping.The credit? Who cares.IMEDIT A TE ON THE IMMENSITY
A monk is a man who is separated from all and who is in harmony with all.
— E V A G R I U S  P O N T I C U S
n 1879, the preservationist and explorer John Muir took his first trip to
Alaska. As he explored the fjords and rocky landscapes of Alaska’ s now
famous Glacier Bay , a powerful feeling struck him all at once. He’d always
been in love with nature, and here in the unique summer climate of the far
north, in this single moment, it was as if the entire world was in sync. As if
he could see the entire ecosystem and circle of life before him. His pulse
began to pick up, and he and the group were “warmed and quickened into
sympathy with everything, taken back into the heart of nature” from which
we all came. Thankfully , Muir noticed and recorded in his journal the
beautiful cohesion of the world around him, which few have ever matched
since.
W e feel the life and motion about us, and the universal beauty: the
tides marching back and forth with weariless industry , laving the
beautiful shores, and swaying the purple dulse of the broad meadows
of the sea where the fishes are fed, the wild streams in rows white
with waterfalls, ever in bloom and ever in song, spreading their
branches over a thousand mountains; the vast forests feeding on the
drenching sunbeams, every cell in a whirl of enjoyment; misty flocks
of insects stirring all the air , the wild sheep and goats on the grassy
ridges above the woods, bears in the berry-tangles, mink and beaver
and otter far back on many a river and lake; Indians and adventurers
pursuing their lonely ways; birds tending to their young—
everywhere, everywhere, beauty and life, and glad, rejoicing action.In this moment, he was experiencing what the Stoics would call
sympatheia —a connectedness with the cosmos.The French philosopher
Pierre Hadot has referred to it as the “oceanic feeling.” A sense of
belonging to something lar ger , of realizing that “human things are an
infinitesimal point in the immensity .” It is in these moments that we’re not
only free but drawn toward important questions:  Who am I? What am I
doing? What is my r ole in this world?
Nothing draws us away from those questions like material success—
when we are always busy , stressed, put upon, distracted, reported to, relied
on, apart from. When we’re wealthy and told that we’re important or
powerful. Ego tells us that meaning comes from activity , that being the
center of attention is the only way to matter .
When we lack a connection to anything lar ger or bigger than us, it’ s like
a piece of our soul is gone. Like we’ve detached ourselves from the
traditions we hail from, whatever that happens to be (a craft, a sport, a
brotherhood or sisterhood, a family). Ego blocks us from the beauty and
history in the world. It stands in the way .
No wonder we find success empty . No wonder we’re exhausted. No
wonder it feels like we’re on a treadmill. No wonder we lose touch with the
ener gy that once fueled us.
Here’ s an exercise: walk onto ancient battlefield or a place of historical
significance. Look at the statues and you can’ t help but see how similar the
people look, how little has changed since then—since before, and how it
will be forever after . Here a great man once stood. Here another brave
woman died. Here a cruel rich man lived, in this palatial home . . . It’ s the
sense that others have been here before you, generations of them, in fact.
In those moments, we have a sense of the immensity of the world. Ego is
impossible, because we realize, if only fleetingly , what Emerson meant
when he said that “Every man is a quotation from all his ancestors.” They
are part of us, we are part of a tradition. Embrace the power of this position
and learn from it. It is an exhilarating feeling to grasp this, like the one that
Muir felt in Alaska. Y es, we are small. W e are also a piece of this great
universe and a process.
The astrophysicist Neil deGrasse T yson has described this duality well—
it’ s possible to bask in both your relevance and irrelevance to the cosmos.
As he says, “When I look up in the universe, I know I’m small, but I’m alsobig. I’m big because I’m connected to the universe and the universe is
connected to me.” W e just can’ t for get which is bigger and which has been
here longer .
Why do you think that great leaders and thinkers throughout history have
“gone out into the wilderness” and come back with inspiration, with a plan,
with an experience that puts them on a course that changes the world? It’ s
because in doing so they found perspective, they understood the lar ger
picture in a way that wasn’ t possible in the bustle of everyday life.
Silencing the noise around them, they could finally hear the quiet voice they
needed to listen to.
Creativity is a matter of receptiveness and recognition. This cannot
happen if you’re convinced the world revolves around you.
By removing the ego—even temporarily—we can access what’ s left
standing in relief. By widening our perspective, more comes into view .
It’ s sad how disconnected from the past and the future most of us really
are. W e for get that woolly mammoths walked the earth while the pyramids
were being built. W e don’ t realize that Cleopatra lived closer to our time
than she did to the construction of those famous pyramids that marked her
kingdom. When British workers excavated the land in T rafalgar Square to
build Nelson’ s Column and its famous stone lions, in the ground they found
the bones of actual lions, who’d roamed that exact spot just a few thousand
years before. Someone recently calculated that it takes but a chain of six
individuals who shook hands with one another across the centuries to
connect Barack Obama to Geor ge W ashington. There’ s a video you can
watch on Y ouT ube of a man on a CBS game show , “I’ve Got a Secret,” in
1956, in an episode that also happened to feature a famous actress named
Lucille Ball. His secret? He was in Ford’ s Theatre when Lincoln was
assassinated. England’ s government only recently paid of f debts it incurred
as far back as 1720 from events like the South Sea Bubble, the Napoleonic
wars, the empire’ s abolition of slavery , and the Irish potato famine—
meaning that in the twenty-first century there was still a direct and daily
connection to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
As our power or talents grow , we like to think that makes us special—
that we live in blessed, unprecedented times. This is compounded by the
fact that so many of the photos we see from even fifty years ago are still in
black and white, and we seem to assume that the world  was in black andwhite. Obviously , it wasn’ t—their sky was the same color as ours (in some
places brighter than ours), they bled the same way we did, and their cheeks
got flushed just like ours do. W e are just like them, and always will be.
“It’ s hard to be humble when you’re as great as I am,” Muhammad Ali
once said. Y eah, okay . That’ s why great people have to work even harder to
fight against this headwind. It’ s hard to be self-absorbed and convinced of
your own greatness inside the solitude and quiet of a sensory deprivation
tank. It’ s hard to be anything but  humble walking alone along a beach late
at night with an endless black ocean crashing loudly against the ground next
to you.
W e have to actively seek out this cosmic sympathy . There’ s the famous
Blake poem that opens with “T o see a W orld in a Grain of Sand / And a
Heaven in a W ild Flower / Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand / And
Eternity in an hour .” That’ s what we’re after here. That’ s the transcendental
experience that makes our petty ego impossible.
Feel unprotected against the elements or forces or surroundings. Remind
yourself how pointless it is to rage and fight and try to one-up those around
you. Go and put yourself in touch with the infinite, and end your conscious
separation from the world. Reconcile yourself a bit better with the realities
of life. Realize how much came before you, and how only wisps of it
remain.
Let the feeling carry you as long as you can. Then when you start to feel
