But we can manage that too.F A I L U R E
Here we are experiencing the trials endemic to any journey . Perhaps we’ve failed, perhaps our
goal turned out to be harder to achieve than anticipated. No one is permanently successful,
and not everyone finds success on the first attempt. W e all deal with setbacks along the way .
Ego not only leaves us unprepared for these circumstances, it often contributed to their
occurrence in the first place. The way through, the way to rise again, requires a reorientation
and increased self-awareness. W e don’ t need pity—our own or anyone else’ s—we need
purpose, poise, and patience.
F
It is because mankind are disposed to sympathize more entirely with our joy than with
our sorrow , that we make parade of our riches, and conceal our poverty . Nothing is so
mortifying as to be obliged to expose our distress to the view of the public, and to feel,
that though our situation is open to the eyes of all mankind, no mortal conceives for us
the half of what we suf fer .
— A D A M  S M I T H
or the first half of her life, Katharine Graham saw pretty much
everything go right.
Her father , Eugene Meyer , was a financial genius who made a fortune in
the stock market. Her mother was a beautiful as well as brilliant socialite.
As a child, Katharine had the best of everything: the best schools, the best
teachers, big houses, and servants to wait on her .
In 1933, her father bought the W ashington Post , then a struggling but
important newspaper , which he began to turn around. The only child to
express any serious interest in it, Katharine inherited the paper when she
was older and handed over the management to her equally impressive
husband, Philip Graham.
She was not another Howard Hughes, who squandered her family’ s
fortune. She was not another rich kid who took the easy road in life because
she could. But it was a cushy life, no question about it. She had been, in her
words, content to be the tail to her husband’ s (and parent’ s) kite.
Then life took a turn. Phil Graham’ s behavior became increasingly
erratic. He drank heavily . He made reckless business decisions and bought
things they couldn’ t af ford. He began having af fairs. He publicly humiliated
his wife in front of nearly everyone they knew . Rich people problems,
right? It turns out that he had suf fered a severe mental breakdown, and as
Katharine attempted to nurse him back to health, he killed himself with a
hunting rifle while she napped in the next room.In 1963, at forty-six years old, Katharine Graham, a mother of three with
no work experience, found herself in char ge of the W ashington Post
Company , a vast corporation with thousands of employees. She was
unprepared, timid, and naive.
Though tragic, these events were not exactly a cataclysmic failure.
Graham was still rich, still white, still privileged. Still, it was not what she
thought life had planned for her . That’ s the point. Failure and adversity are
relative and unique to each of us. Almost without exception, this is what life
does: it takes our plans and dashes them to pieces. Sometimes once,
sometimes lots of times.
As the financial philosopher and economist Geor ge Goodman once
observed, it is as if “we are at a wonderful ball where the champagne
sparkles in every glass and soft laughter falls upon the summer air . W e
know at some moment the black horsemen will come shattering through the
terrace doors wreaking vengeance and scattering the survivors. Those who
leave early are saved, but the ball is so splendid no one wants to leave while
there is still time. So everybody keeps asking—what time is it? But none of
the clocks have hands.”
He was speaking of economic crises, although he may as well have been
talking about where all of us find ourselves, not just once in our lifetimes,
but often. Things are going well. Perhaps we’re aspiring to some big goal.
Perhaps we’re finally enjoying the fruits of our labors. At any point, fate
can intervene.
If success is ego intoxication, then failure can be a devastating ego blow
—turning slips into falls and little troubles into great unravelings. If ego is
often just a nasty side ef fect of great success, it can be fatal during failure.
W e have many names for these problems: Sabotage. Unfairness.
Adversity . T rials. T ragedy . No matter the label, it’ s a trial. W e don’ t like it,
and some of us are sunk by it. Others seem to be built to make it through. In
either case, it’ s a trial each person must endure.
This fate is as much written for us as it was written five thousand years
ago for the young king in Gilgamesh :
He will face a battle he knows not,
he will ride a r oad he knows not.That’ s what came to Katharine Graham. It turned out that taking over the
paper was the first in a series of trying and wrenching events that lasted for
nearly two decades.
Thomas Paine, remarking about Geor ge W ashington, once wrote that
there is a “natural firmness in some minds which cannot be unlocked by
trifles, but which, when unlocked, discovers a cabinet of fortitude.” Graham
seems to have possessed a similar cabinet.
As she settled into her leadership position, Graham found that the
paper ’ s conservative board was a constant obstacle. They were patronizing
and risk averse and had held the company back. T o succeed, she would
have to develop her own compass and not defer to others the way she
always had. It eventually became clear that she needed a new executive
editor . Against the board’ s advice, she replaced the well-liked good old boy
with an unknown young upstart. Simple enough.
The next turn of the screw wasn’ t. Just as the company was filing to go
public, the Post  received a collection of stolen government documents that
editors asked Graham if they could run, despite a court order preventing
their publication. She consulted the company’ s lawyers. She consulted the
board. All advised against it—fearing it could sink the IPO or tie the
company up in lawsuits for years. T orn, she decided to proceed and publish
them—a decision with essentially no precedent. Shortly thereafter , the
paper ’ s investigation of a bur glary at the Democratic National Committee’ s
headquarters—relying on an anonymous source—threatened to put the
company permanently at odds with the White House and W ashington’ s
powerful elite (as well as jeopardizing the government licenses they needed
for the TV stations the Post  owned). At one point, Nixon loyalist and the
attorney general of the United States  John Mitchell threatened that Graham
had so overreached that her “tit” was going to be “caught in a big fat
wringer .” Another aide bragged that the White House was now thinking
about how to screw the paper over . Put yourself in her shoes: the most
powerful of fice in the world explicitly strategizing, “How can we hurt the
Post  the most?”
On top of that, the Post ’ s stock price was less than stellar . The market
was poor . In 1974, an investor began aggressively buying up shares in the
company . The board was terrified. It could mean a hostile takeover . Graham
was dispatched to deal with him. The following year , the paper ’ s printers’union began a vicious, protracted strike. At one point, union members wore
shirts that said, “Phil Shot the W rong Graham.” Despite—or perhaps
because of—these tactics, she decided to fight the strike. They fought back.
At four o’clock one morning came a a frantic call: the union had sabotaged
company machinery , beaten up an innocent staf fer , and then set one of the
printing presses on fire. T ypically , during printing strikes competitors will
help fellow papers out with their printing but Graham’ s competitors refused,
costing the Post $300,000 a day in advertising revenue.
Then, a suite of major investors began to sell their stock positions in the
W ashington Post Company , ostensibly having lost their faith in its
prospects. Graham, pushed by the activist investor she’d met with earlier ,
decided her best option was to spend an enormous amount of the company’ s
money to buy back its own shares on the public markets—a dangerous
move that almost no one was doing at the time.
That’ s a list of problems exhausting to read about let alone live through.
Y et because of Graham’ s perseverance, it shook out better than anyone
could have possibly predicted.
The leaked documents Katharine Graham published became known as
the Pentagon Papers and were one of the most important stories in the
history of journalism. The paper ’ s W ater gate reporting, which so incensed
the Nixon White House, changed American history and took down an entire
administration. It also won the paper a Pulitzer Prize. The investor others
had feared turned out to be a young W arren Buf fett, who became her
business mentor and an enormous advocate and steward of the company .
(His small investments in her family’ s company would one day be worth
hundreds of millions.) She prevailed in negotiations with the union and the
strike eventually ended. Her main competitor in W ashington, the one that
had refused to come to her aid, the Star , suddenly folded and was acquired
by the Post . Her stock buybacks—made contrary not only to business
wisdom, but the judgment of the market—made the company billions  of
dollars.
It turns out that the long hard slog she endured, the mistakes she made,
the repeated failures, crises, and attacks were all leading somewhere. If
you’d invested $1 in the Post ’ s IPO in 1971, it would be worth $89 by the
time Graham stepped down in 1993—compared to $14 for her industry and
$5 for the S&P 500. It makes her not just one of the most successful femaleCEOs of her generation and the first to run a Fortune 500 company , but one
of the best CEOs ever , period.
For someone born with a silver spoon in her mouth, the first decade and
a half was what you’d call a baptism of fire. Graham faced dif ficulty after
dif ficulty , dif ficulties that she wasn’ t really equipped to handle, or so it
seemed. There were times when it probably felt like she should have just
sold the damn thing and enjoyed her massive wealth.
Graham didn’ t cause her husband’ s suicide, but it was left to her to carry
on without him. She didn’ t ask for W ater gate and the Pentagon Papers, but
it fell on her to navigate their incendiary nature. While others went on
buying and mer ger sprees in the eighties, she didn’ t. She doubled down on
herself and her own company , despite the fact that it was treated as a
weakling by W all Street. She could have taken the easy way a hundred
times, but did not.
At any given moment, there is the chance of failure or setbacks. Bill
W alsh says, “Almost always, your road to victory goes through a place
called ‘failure.’” In order to taste success again, we’ve got to understand
what led to this moment (or these years) of dif ficulty , what went wrong and
why . W e must deal with the situation in order to move past it. W e’ll need to
accept it and  to push through it.
Graham was alone in most of this. She was blindly feeling her way
through the dark, trying to figure out a tough situation she never expected to
be in. She’ s an example of how you can do most everything right and still
find yourself in deep shit.
W e think that failure only comes to egomaniacs who were begging for it.
Nixon deserved to fail; did Graham? The reality is that while yes, often
people set themselves up to crash, good people fail (or other people fail
them) all the time too. People who have already been through a lot find
themselves stuck with more. Life isn’ t fair .
Ego loves this notion, the idea that something is “fair” or not.
Psychologists call it narcissistic injury when we take personally totally
indif ferent and objective events. W e do that when our sense of self is fragile
and dependent on life going our way all the time. Whether what you’re
going through is your fault or your problem doesn’ t matter , because it’ s
yours to deal with right now . Graham’ s ego didn’ t cause her to fail, but if
she’d had one, it certainly would have prevented her from succeeding everagain. Y ou could say that failure always arrives uninvited, but through our
ego, far too many of us allow it to stick around.
What did Graham need through all this? Not swagger . Not bluster . She
needed to be strong. She needed confidence and a willingness to endure. A
sense of right and wrong. Purpose . It wasn’ t about her . It was about
preserving her family’ s legacy . Protecting the paper . Doing her job.
What about you? W ill your ego betray you when things get dif ficult? Or
can you proceed without it?
When we face dif ficulty , particularly public dif ficulty (doubters,
scandals, losses), our friend the ego will show its true colors.
Absorbing the negative feedback, ego says: I knew you couldn’ t do it.
Why did you ever try?  It claims: This isn’ t worth it. This isn’ t fair . This is
somebody else’ s problem. Why don’ t you come up with a good excuse and
wash your hands of this?  It tells us we shouldn’ t have to put up with this. It
tells us that we’re not the problem.
That is, it adds self-injury to every injury you experience.
T o paraphrase Epicurus, the narcissistically inclined live in an “unwalled
city .” A fragile sense of self is constantly under threat. Illusions and
accomplishments are not defenses, not when you’ve got the special
sensitive antennae trained to receive (and create) the signals that challenge
your precarious balancing act.
It is a miserable way to live.
The year before W alsh took over the 49ers, they went 2 and 14. His first
year as head coach and general manager , they went . . . 2 and 14. Can you
imagine the disappointment? All the changes, all the work that went into
that first year , and to end up in the exact same spot as the incompetent
coach who preceded you? That’ s how most of us would think. And then
we’d probably start blaming other people.
W alsh realized he “had to look for evidence elsewhere” that it was
turning around. For him, it was in how the games were being played, the
good decisions and the changes that were being made inside the
or ganization. T wo seasons later , they won the Super Bowl and then several
more after that. At rock bottom those victories must have felt like a long
way of f, which is why you have to be able to see past and through.
As Goethe once observed, the great failing is “to see yourself as more
than you are and to value yourself at less than your true worth.” A goodmetaphor might be the kind of stock buybacks that Katharine Graham made
in the late seventies and eighties. Stock buybacks are controversial—they
usually come from a company that is stalled or whose growth is
decelerating. W ith buybacks, a CEO is making a rather incredible
statement. She’ s saying: The market is wrong. It’ s valuing our company so
incorrectly , and clearly has so little idea where we are heading, that we’re
going to spend the company’ s precious cash on a bet that they’re wrong.
T oo often, dishonest or egotistical CEOs buy back company stock
because they’re delusional. Or because they want to artificially inflate the
stock price. Conversely , timid or weak CEOs wouldn’ t even consider
betting on themselves. In Graham’ s case, she made a value judgment; with
Buf fett’ s help she could see objectively that the market didn’ t appreciate the
true worth of the company’ s assets. She knew that the reputational hits, the
learning curve, had all contributed to a suppressed stock price, which aside
from reducing her personal wealth, created a massive opportunity for the
company . Over a short period, she would buy nearly 40 percent of the
company’ s shares at a fraction of what they’d later be worth. The stock that
Katharine Graham bought for approximately $20 a share would less than a
decade later be worth more than $300.
What both Graham and W alsh were doing was adhering to a set of
internal metrics that allowed them to evaluate and gauge their progress
while everyone on the outside was too distracted by supposed signs of
failure or weakness.
This is what guides us through dif ficulty .
Y ou might not get into your first choice college. Y ou might not get
picked for the project or you might get passed over for the promotion.
Someone might outbid you for the job, for your dream house, for the
opportunity you feel everything depends on. This might happen tomorrow ,
it might happen twenty-five years from now . It could last for two minutes or
ten years. W e know that everyone experiences failure and adversity , that
we’re all subject to the rules of gravity and averages. What does that mean?
It means we’ll face them too.
As Plutarch finely expressed, “The future bears down upon each one of
us with all the hazards of the unknown.” The only way out is through.
Humble and strong people don’ t have the same trouble with these
troubles that egotists do. There are fewer complaints and far less self-immolation. Instead, there’ s stoic—even cheerful—resilience. Pity isn’ t
necessary . Their identity isn’ t threatened. They can get by without constant
validation.
This is what we’re aspiring to—much more than mere success. What
matters is that we can respond to what life throws at us.
