ultimately controls its direction, just as the canvas shapes the painting.PRESTRAIN YOURSELF
I have observed that those who have accomplished the greatest results are those who
“keep under the body”; are those who never grow excited or lose self-control, but are
always calm, self-possessed, patient, and polite.
— B O O K E R  T .  W A S H I N G T O N
eople who knew Jackie Robinson as a young man probably wouldn’ t
have predicted that they’d one day see him become the first black
player in Major League Baseball. Not that he wasn’ t talented, or that the
idea of eventually integrating white baseball was inconceivable, it’ s that he
wasn’ t exactly known for his restraint and poise.
As a teenager , Robinson ran with a small gang of friends who regularly
found themselves in trouble with local police. He challenged a fellow
student to a fight at a junior college picnic for using a slur . In a basketball
game, he surreptitiously struck a hard-fouling white opponent with the ball
so forcefully that the kid bled everywhere. He was arrested more than once
for ar guing with and challenging police, who he felt treated him unfairly .
Before he started at UCLA, he spent the night in jail (and had a gun
drawn on him by an of ficer) for nearly fighting a white man who’d insulted
his friends. And in addition to rumors of inciting protests against racism,
Jackie Robinson ef fectively ended his career as a military of ficer at Camp
Hood in 1944 when a bus driver attempted to force him to sit in the back in
spite of laws that forbade segregation on base buses. By ar guing and
cursing at the driver and then directly challenging his commanding of ficer
after the fracas, Jackie set in motion a series of events that led to a court-
martial. Despite being acquitted, he was dischar ged shortly afterward.
It’ s not just understandable and human that he did this; it was probably
the right thing to do. Why should he let anyone else treat him that way? Noone should have to stand for that.
Except sometimes they do. Are there not goals so important that we’d
put up with anything to achieve them?
When Branch Rickey , the manager and owner of the Brooklyn Dodgers,
scouted Jackie to potentially become the first black player in baseball, he
had one question: Do you have the guts? “I’m looking,” Rickey told him,
“for a ball player with the guts not  to fight back.” In fact, in their famous
meeting, Rickey playacted the abuse that Robinson was likely to experience
if he accepted Rickey’ s challenge: a hotel clerk refusing him a room, a rude
waiter in a restaurant, an opponent shouting slurs. This, Robinson assured
him, he was ready to handle.
There were plenty of players Rickey could have gone with. But he
needed one who wouldn’ t let his ego block him from seeing the bigger
picture.
As he started in baseball’ s farm system, then in the pros, Robinson faced
more than just slights from service staf f or reticent players. There was an
aggressive, coordinated campaign to libel, boo, provoke, freeze out, attack,
maim, or even kill. In his career , he was hit by more than seventy-two
pitches, nearly had his Achilles tendon taken out by players who aimed
their spikes at him, and that says nothing of the calls he was cheated out of
and the breaks of the game that didn’ t go his way . Y et Jackie Robinson held
to his unwritten pact with Rickey , never giving into explosive anger—
however deserved. In fact, in nine years in the league, he never hit another
player with his fist.
Athletes seem spoiled and hotheaded to us today , but we have no
concept of what the leagues were like then. In 1956, T ed W illiams, one of
the most revered and respected players in the history of the game, was once
caught spitting  at his fans. As a white player he could not only get away
with this, he later told reporters, “I’m not a bit sorry for what I did. I was
right and I’d spit again at the same people who booed me today . . .
Nobody’ s going to stop me from spitting.” For a black player , this sort of
behavior would have been not only unthinkable but shortsighted beyond
comprehension. Robinson had no such freedom—it would have ended not
only his career , but set back his grand experiment for a generation.
Jackie’ s path called for him to put aside both his ego and in some
respects his basic sense of fairness and rights as a human being. Early in hiscareer , the manager of the Philadelphia Phillies, Ben Chapman, was
particularly brutal in his taunting during a game. “They’re waiting for you
in the jungles, black boy!” he yelled over and over . “W e don’ t want you
here, nigger .” Not only did Jackie not respond—despite, as he later wrote,
wanting to “grab one of those white sons of bitches and smash his teeth in
with my despised black fist”—a month later he agreed to take a friendly
photo with Chapman to help save the man’ s job.
The thought of touching, posing with such an asshole, even sixty years
removed, almost turns the stomach. Robinson called it one of the most
dif ficult things he ever did, but he was willing to because it was part of a
lar ger plan. He understood that certain forces were trying to bait him, to
ruin him. Knowing what he wanted and needed to do in baseball, it was
clear what he would have to tolerate in order do it. He shouldn’ t have had
to, but he did.
Our own path, whatever we aspire to, will in some ways be defined by
the amount of nonsense we are willing to deal with. Our humiliations will
pale in comparison to Robinson’ s, but it will still be hard. It will still be
tough to keep our self-control.
The fighter Bas Rutten sometimes writes the letter R  on both his hands
before fights—for the word rustig , which means “relax” in Dutch. Getting
angry , getting emotional, losing restraint is a recipe for failure in the ring.
Y ou cannot, as John Steinbeck once wrote to his editor , “[lose] temper as a
refuge from despair .” Y our ego will do you no favors here, whether you’re
struggling with a publisher , with critics, with enemies, or a capricious boss.
It doesn’ t matter that they don’ t understand or that you know better . It’ s too
early for that. It’ s too soon.
Oh, you went to college ? That doesn’ t mean the world is yours by right.
But it was the Ivy League ? W ell, people are still going to treat you poorly ,
and they will still yell at you. Y ou have a million dollars or a wall full of
awards? That doesn’ t mean anything in the new field you’re trying to
tackle.
It doesn’ t matter how talented you are, how great your connections are,
how much money you have. When you want to do something—something
big and important and meaningful—you will be subjected to treatment
ranging from indif ference to outright sabotage. Count on it.In this scenario, ego is the absolute opposite of what is needed. Who can
af ford to be jerked around by impulses, or believe that you’re god’ s gift to
humanity , or too important to put up with anything you don’ t like?
Those who have subdued their ego understand that it doesn’ t degrade
you  when others treat you poorly; it degrades them.
Up ahead there will be: Slights. Dismissals. Little fuck yous. One-sided
compromises. Y ou’ll get yelled at. Y ou’ll have to work behind the scenes to
salvage what should have been easy . All this will make you angry . This will
make you want to fight back. This will make you want to say: I am better
than this. I deserve mor e.
Of course, you’ll want to throw that in other people’ s faces. W orse,
you’ll want to get in other people’ s faces, people who don’ t deserve  the
respect, recognition, or rewards they are getting. In fact, those people will
often get perks instead  of you. When someone doesn’ t reckon you with the
seriousness that you’d like, the impulse is to correct them. (As we all wish
to say: Do you know who I am?! ) Y ou want to remind them of what they’ve
for gotten; your ego screams for you to indulge it.
Instead, you must do nothing. T ake it. Eat it until you’re sick. Endure it.
Quietly brush it of f and work harder . Play the game. Ignore the noise; for
the love of God, do not let it distract you. Restraint is a dif ficult skill but a
critical one. Y ou will often be tempted, you will probably even be
overcome. No one is perfect with it, but try we must.
It is a timeless fact of life that the up-and-coming must endure the abuses
of the entrenched. Robinson was twenty-eight  when he started with the
Dodgers, and he’d already paid plenty of dues in life as both a black man
and a soldier . Still, he was forced to do it again. It’ s a sad fact of life that
new talents are regularly missed, and even when recognized, often
unappreciated. The reasons always vary , but it’ s a part of the journey .
But you’re not able to change the system until  after you’ve made it. In
the meantime, you’ll have to find some way to make it suit your purposes—
even if those purposes are just extra time to develop properly , to learn from
others on their dime, to build your base and establish yourself.
As Robinson succeeded, after he had proved himself as the Rookie of the
Y ear and as an MVP , and as his spot on the Dodgers was certain, he began
to more clearly assert himself and his boundaries as a player and as a man.
Having carved out his space, he felt that he could ar gue with umpires, hecould throw his shoulder if he needed to make a player back of f or to send a
message.
No matter how confident and famous Robinson became, he never spit on
fans. He never did anything that undermined his legacy . A class act from
opening day until the end, Jackie Robinson was not without passion. He had
a temper and frustrations like all of us do. But he learned early that the
tightrope he walked would tolerate only restraint and had no for giveness for
ego.
