make us stronger .IT ALK, T ALK, T ALK
Those who know do not speak.
Those who speak do not know .
— L A O  T Z U
n his famous 1934 campaign for the governorship of California, the
author and activist Upton Sinclair took an unusual step. Before the
election, he published a short book titled  I, Governor of California and
How I Ended Poverty , in which he outlined, in the past tense, the brilliant
policies he had enacted as governor . . . the of fice he had not yet won.
It was an untraditional move from an untraditional campaign, intended to
leverage Sinclair ’ s best asset—as an author , he knew he could communicate
with the public in a way that others couldn’ t. Now , Sinclair ’ s campaign was
always a long shot and hardly in good shape when they published the book.
But observers at the time noticed immediately the ef fect it had—not on the
voters, but on Sinclair himself. As Carey McW illiams later wrote about his
friend’ s gubernatorial bid as it went south, “Upton not only realized that he
would be defeated but seemed somehow to have lost interest in the
campaign. In that vivid imagination of his, he had already acted out the part
of ‘I, Governor of California,’  . . . so why bother to enact it in real life?”
The book was a best seller , the campaign a failure. Sinclair lost by
something like a quarter of a million votes (a mar gin of more than 10
percentage points); he was utterly decimated in what was probably the first
modern election. It’ s clear what happened: his talk got out ahead of his
campaign and the will to bridge the gap collapsed. Most politicians don’ t
write books like that, but they get ahead of themselves just the same.
It’ s a temptation that exists for everyone—for talk and hype to replace
action.The empty text box: “What’ s on your mind?” Facebook asks. “Compose
a new tweet,” T witter beckons. T umblr . LinkedIn. Our inbox, our iPhones,
the comments section on the bottom of the article you just read.
Blank spaces, begging to be filled in with thoughts, with photos, with
stories. W ith what we’re going  to do, with what things should or could  be
like, what we hope will happen. T echnology , asking you, prodding you,
soliciting talk.
Almost universally , the kind of performance we give on social media is
positive . It’ s more “Let me tell you how well things are going. Look how
great I am.” It’ s rarely the truth: “I’m scared. I’m struggling. I don’ t know .”
At the beginning of any path, we’re excited and nervous. So we seek to
comfort ourselves externally instead of inwardly . There’ s a weak side to
each of us, that—like a trade union—isn’ t exactly malicious but at the end
of the day still wants get as much public credit and attention as it can for
doing the least. That side we call ego.
The writer and former Gawker blogger Emily Gould—a real-life Hannah
Horvath if there ever was one—realized this during her two-year struggle to
get a novel published. Though she had a six-figure book deal, she was
stuck. Why? She was too busy “spending a lot of time on the Internet,”
that’ s why .
In fact, I can’ t really remember anything else I did in 2010. I tumbld,
I tweeted, and I scrolled. This didn’ t earn me any money but it felt
like work. I justified my habits to myself in various ways. I was
building my brand. Blogging was a creative act—even “curating” by
reblogging someone else’ s post was a creative act, if you squinted. It
was also the only creative thing I was doing.
In other words, she did what a lot of us do when we’re scared or
overwhelmed by a project: she did everything but  focus on it. The actual
novel she was supposed to be working on stalled completely . For a year .
It was easier to talk about writing, to do the exciting things related to art
and creativity and literature, than to commit the act itself. She’ s not the only
one. Someone recently published a book called W orking On My Novel ,filled with social media posts from writers who are clearly not  working on
their novels.
W riting, like so many creative acts, is hard. Sitting there, staring, mad at
yourself, mad at the material because it doesn’ t seem good enough and you
don’ t seem good enough. In fact, many valuable endeavors we undertake
are painfully dif ficult, whether it’ s coding a new startup or mastering a
craft. But talking, talking is always easy .
W e seem to think that silence is a sign of weakness. That being ignored
is tantamount to death (and for the ego, this is true). So we talk, talk, talk as
though our life depends on it.
In actuality , silence is strength—particularly early on in any journey . As
the philosopher (and as it happens, a hater of newspapers and their chatter)
Kierkegaard warned, “Mere gossip anticipates real talk, and to express what
is still in thought weakens action by forestalling it.”
And that’ s what is so insidious about talk . Anyone can talk about himself
or herself. Even a child knows how to gossip and chatter . Most people are
decent at hype and sales. So what is scarce and rare? Silence. The ability to
deliberately keep yourself out of the conversation and subsist without its
validation. Silence is the respite of the confident and the strong.
Sherman had a good rule he tried to observe. “Never give reasons for
you what think or do until you must. Maybe, after a while, a better reason
will pop into your head.” The baseball and football great Bo Jackson
decided he had two things he wanted to accomplish as an athlete at Auburn:
he would win the Heisman T rophy and be taken first in the NFL draft. Do
you know who he told? Nobody but his girlfriend.
Strategic flexibility is not the only benefit of silence while others chatter .
It is also psychology . The poet Hesiod had this in mind when he said, “A
man’ s best treasure is a thrifty tongue.”
T alk depletes us. T alking and doing fight for the same resources.
Research shows that while goal visualization is important, after a certain
point our mind begins to confuse it with actual progress. The same goes for
verbalization. Even talking aloud to ourselves while we work through
dif ficult problems has been shown to significantly decrease insight and
breakthroughs. After spending so much time thinking, explaining, and
talking about a task, we start to feel that we’ve gotten closer to achieving it.Or worse, when things get tough, we feel we can toss the whole project
aside because we’ve given it our best try , although of course we haven’ t.
The more dif ficult the task, the more uncertain the outcome, the more
costly talk will be and the farther we run from actual accountability . It’ s
sapped us of the ener gy desperately needed to conquer what Steven
Pressfield calls the “Resistance”—the hurdle that stands between us and
creative expression. Success requires a full 100 percent of our ef fort, and
talk flitters part of that ef fort away before we can use it.
A lot of us succumb to this temptation—particularly when we feel
overwhelmed or stressed or have a lot of work to do. In our building phase,
resistance will be a constant source of discomfort. T alking—listening to
ourselves talk, performing for an audience—is almost like therapy . I just
spent four hours talking about this. Doesn’ t that count for something? The
answer is no.
Doing great work is a struggle. It’ s draining, it’ s demoralizing, it’ s
frightening—not always, but it can feel that way when we’re deep in the
middle of it. W e talk to fill the void and the uncertainty . “V oid,” Marlon
Brando, a quiet actor if there ever was one, once said, “is terrifying to most
people.” It is almost as if we are assaulted by silence or confronted by it,
particularly if we’ve allowed our ego to lie to us over the years. Which is so
damaging for one reason: the greatest work and art comes from wr estling
with the void, facing it instead of scrambling to make it go away . The
question is, when faced with your particular challenge—whether it is
researching in a new field, starting a business, producing a film, securing a
mentor , advancing an important cause—do you seek the respite of talk or do
you face the struggle head-on?
Think about it: a voice of a generation  doesn’ t call itself that. In fact,
when you think about it, you realize just how little  these voices seem to
talk. It’ s a song, it’ s a speech, it’ s a book—the volume of work may be light,
but what’ s inside it is concentrated and impactful.
They work quietly in the corner . They turn their inner turmoil into
product—and eventually to stillness. They ignore the impulse to seek
recognition before they act. They don’ t talk much. Or mind the feeling that
others, out there in public and enjoying the limelight, are somehow getting
the better end of the deal. (They are not.) They’re too busy working to do
anything else. When they do talk—it’ s earned.The only relationship between work and chatter is that one kills the
other .
Let the others slap each other on the back while you’re back in the lab or
the gym or pounding the pavement. Plug that hole—that one, right in the
middle of your face—that can drain you of your vital life force. W atch what
