AcknowledgmentsTTHE P AINFUL PROLOGUE
his is not a book about me. But since this is a book about ego, I’m
going to address a question that I’d be a hypocrite not to have thought
about.
Who the hell am I to write it?
My story is not particularly important for the lessons that follow , but I
want to tell it briefly here at the beginning in order to provide some context.
For I have experienced ego at each of its stages in my short life: Aspiration.
Success. Failure. And back again and back again.
When I was nineteen years old, sensing some astounding and life-
changing opportunities, I dropped out of college. Mentors vied for my
attention, groomed me as their protégé. Seen as going places, I was the  kid.
Success came quickly .
After I became the youngest executive at a Beverly Hills talent
management agency , I helped sign and work with a number of huge rock
bands. I advised on books that went on to sell millions of copies and invent
their own literary genres. Around the time I turned twenty-one, I came on as
a strategist for American Apparel, then one of the hottest fashion brands in
the world. Soon, I was the director of marketing.
By twenty-five, I had published my first book—which was an immediate
and controversial best seller—with my face prominently on the cover . A
studio optioned the rights to create a television show about my life. In the
next few years, I accumulated many of the trappings of success—influence,
a platform, press, resources, money , even a little notoriety . Later , I built a
successful company on the back of those assets, where I worked with well-
known, well-paying clients and did the kind of work that got me invited to
speak at conferences and fancy events.
W ith success comes the temptation to tell oneself a story , to round of f the
edges, to cut out your lucky breaks and add a certain mythology to it all.Y ou know , that arcing narrative of Herculean struggle for greatness against
all odds: sleeping on the floor , being disowned by my parents, suf fering for
my ambition. It’ s a type of storytelling in which eventually your talent
becomes your identity and your accomplishments become your worth.
But a story like this is never honest or helpful. In my retelling to you just
now , I left a lot out. Conveniently omitted were the stresses and
temptations; the stomach-turning drops and the mistakes—all the mistakes
—were left on the cutting-room floor in favor of the highlight reel. They are
the times I would rather not discuss: A public evisceration by someone I
looked up to, which so crushed me at the time that I was later taken to the
emer gency room. The day I lost my nerve, walked into my boss’ s of fice,
and told him I couldn’ t cut it and was going back to school—and meant it.
The ephemeral nature of best-sellerdom, and how short it actually was (a
week). The book signing that one  person showed up at. The company I
founded tearing itself to pieces and having to rebuild it. T wice. These are
just some of the moments that get nicely edited out.
This fuller picture itself is still only a fraction of a life, but at least it hits
more of the important notes—at least the important ones for this book:
ambition, achievement, and adversity .
I’m not someone who believes in epiphanies. There is no one moment
that changes a person. There are many . During a period of about six months
in 2014, it seemed those moments were all happening in succession.
First, American Apparel—where I did much of my best work—teetered
on the edge of bankruptcy , hundreds of millions of dollars in debt, a shell of
its former self. Its founder , who I had deeply admired since I was a young
man, was unceremoniously fired by his own handpicked board of directors,
and down to sleeping on a friend’ s couch. Then the talent agency where I
made my bones was in similar shape, sued peremptorily by clients to whom
it owed a lot of money . Another mentor of mine seemingly unraveled
around the same time, taking our relationship with him.
These were the people I had shaped my life around. The people I looked
up to and trained under . Their stability—financially , emotionally ,
psychologically—was not just something I took for granted, it was central
to my existence and self-worth. And yet, there they were, imploding right in
front of me, one after another .The wheels were coming of f, or so it felt. T o go from wanting to be like
someone your whole life to realizing you never  want to be like him is a kind
of whiplash that you can’ t prepare for .
Nor was I exempt from this dissolution myself. Just when I could least
af ford it, problems I had neglected in my own life began to emer ge.
Despite my successes, I found myself back in the city I started in,
stressed and overworked, having handed much of my hard-earned freedom
away because I couldn’ t say no to money and the thrill of a good crisis. I
was wound so tight that the slightest disruption sent me into a sputtering,
inconsolable rage. My work, which had always come easy , became labored.
My faith in myself and other people collapsed. My quality of life did too.
I remember arriving at my house one day , after weeks on the road, and
having an intense panic attack because the W i-Fi wasn’ t working— If I don’ t
send these e-mails. If I don’ t send these e-mails. If I don’ t send these e-
mails. If I don’ t send these e-mails  . . .
Y ou think you’re doing what you’re supposed to. Society rewards you
for it. But then you watch your future wife walk out the door because you
aren’ t the person you used to be.
How does something like this happen? Can you really go from feeling
like you’re standing on the shoulders of giants one day , and then the next
you’re prying yourself out of the rubble of multiple implosions, trying to
pick up the pieces from the ruins?
One benefit, however , was that it forced me to come to terms with the
fact that I was a workaholic. Not in an “Oh, he just works too much” kind
of way , or in the “Just relax and play it of f” sense, but more, “If he doesn’ t
start going to meetings and get clean, he will die an early death.” I realized
that the same drive and compulsion that had made me successful so early
came with a price—as it had for so many others. It wasn’ t so much the
amount of work but the outsized role it had taken in my sense of self. I was
trapped so terribly inside my own head that I was a prisoner to my own
thoughts. The result was a sort of treadmill of pain and frustration, and I
needed to figure out why—unless I wanted to break in an equally tragic
fashion.
For a long time, as a researcher and writer , I have studied history and
business. Like anything that involves people, seen over a long enoughtimeline universal issues begin to emer ge. These are the topics I had long
been fascinated with. Foremost among them was ego.
I was not unfamiliar with ego and its ef fects. In fact, I had been
researching this book for nearly a year before the events I have just
recounted for you. But my painful experiences in this period brought the
notions I was studying into focus in ways that I could never have previously
understood.
It allowed me to see the ill ef fects of ego played out not just in myself, or
across the pages of history , but in friends and clients and colleagues, some
at the highest levels of many industries. Ego has cost the people I admire
hundreds of millions of dollars, and like Sisyphus, rolled them back from
their goals just as they’ve achieved them. I have now at least peeked over
that precipice myself.
A few months after my own realization, I had the phrase “EGO IS THE
ENEMY” tattooed on my right forearm. Where the words came from I
don’ t know , probably from a book I read long, long ago, but they were
immediately a source of great solace and direction. On my left arm, of
similarly muddled attribution, it says: “THE OBST ACLE IS THE W A Y .”
It’ s these two phrases that I look at now , every single day , and use them to
guide the decisions in my life. I can’ t help but see them when I swim, when
I meditate, when I write, when I get out of the shower in the morning, and
both prepare me—admonish me—to choose the right course in essentially
any situation I might face.
I wrote this book not because I have attained some wisdom I feel
qualified to preach, but because it’ s the book I wish existed at critical
turning points in my own life. When I, like everyone else, was called to
answer the most critical questions a person can ask themselves in life: Who
do I want to be? And: What path will I take? ( Quod vitae sectabor iter . )
And because I’ve found these questions to be timeless and universal,
except for this note, I have tried to rely on philosophy and historical
examples in this book instead of my personal life.
While the history books are filled with tales of obsessive, visionary
geniuses who remade the world in their image with sheer , almost irrational
force, I’ve found that if you go looking you’ll find that history is also made
by individuals who fought their egos at every turn, who eschewed the
spotlight, and who put their higher goals above their desire for recognition.Engaging with and retelling these stories has been my method of learning
and absorbing them.
Like my other books, this one is deeply influenced by Stoic philosophy
and indeed all the great classical thinkers. I borrow heavily from them all in
my writing just as I have leaned on them my entire life. If there is anything
that helps you in this book, it will be because of them and not me.
The orator Demosthenes once said that virtue begins with understanding
and is fulfilled by courage. W e must begin by seeing ourselves and the
world in a new way for the first time. Then we must fight to be dif ferent
and fight to stay dif ferent—that’ s the hard part. I’m not saying you should
repress or crush every ounce of ego in your life—or that doing so is even
possible. These are just reminders, moral stories to encourage our better
impulses.
In Aristotle’ s famous Ethics, he uses the analogy of a warped piece of
wood to describe human nature. In order to eliminate warping or curvature,
a skilled woodworker slowly applies pressure in the opposite direction—
essentially , bending it straight. Of course, a couple of thousand years later
Kant snorted, “Out of the crooked timber of humanity , nothing can be made
straight.” W e might not ever be straight, but we can strive for straighter .
It’ s always nice to be made to feel special or empowered or inspired. But
that’ s not the aim of this book. Instead, I have tried to arrange these pages
so that you might end in the same place I did when I finished writing it: that
is, you will think less of yourself. I hope you will be less invested in the
story you tell about your own specialness, and as a result, you will be
