make a bad situation worse.BTHE EFFOR T IS ENOUGH
What matters to an active man is to do the right thing; whether the right thing comes to
pass should not bother him.
— G O E T H E
elisarius is one of the greatest yet unknown military generals in all of
history . His name has been so obscured and for gotten by history that
he makes the underappreciated General Marshall seem positively famous.
At least they named the Marshall Plan after Geor ge.
As Rome’ s highest-ranking commander under the Byzantine emperor
Justinian, Belisarius saved W estern civilization on at least three occasions.
As Rome collapsed and the seat of the empire moved to Constantinople,
Belisarius was the only bright light in a dark time for Christianity .
He won brilliant victories at Dara, Carthage, Naples, Sicily , and
Constantinople. W ith just a handful of bodyguards against a crowd of tens
of thousands, Belisarius saved the throne when an uprising had grown so
riotous that the emperor made plans to abdicate. He reclaimed far -flung
territories that had been lost for years despite being undermanned and
deprived of resources. He recaptured and defended Rome for the first time
since the barbarians had sacked and taken it. All of this before he was forty .
His thanks? He was not given public triumphs. Instead, he was
repeatedly placed under suspicion by the paranoid emperor he served,
Justinian. His victories and sacrifices were undone with foolish treaties and
bad faith. His personal historian, Procopius, was corrupted by Justinian to
tarnish the man’ s image and legacy . Later , he was relieved of command. His
only remaining title was the deliberately humiliating “Commander of the
Royal Stable.” Oh, and at the end of his illustrious career , Belisarius wasstripped of his wealth, and according to the legend, blinded , and forced to
beg in the streets to survive.
Historians, scholars, and artists have lamented and ar gued about this
treatment for centuries. Like all fair -minded people, they’re outraged at the
stupidity , the ungratefulness, and injustice that this great and unusual man
was subjected to.
The one person we don’ t hear complaining about any of this? Not at the
time, not at the end of his life, not even in private letters: Belisarius himself.
Ironically , he probably could have taken the throne on numerous
occasions, though it appears he was never even tempted. While the Emperor
Justinian fell prey to all the vices of absolute power—control, paranoia,
selfishness, greed—we see hardly a trace of them in Belisarius.
In his eyes, he was just doing his job—one he believed was his sacred
duty . He knew that he did it well. He knew he had done what was right.
That was enough.
In life, there will be times when we do everything right, perhaps even
perfectly . Y et the results will somehow be negative: failure, disrespect,
jealousy , or even a resounding yawn from the world.
Depending on what motivates us, this response can be crushing. If ego
holds sway , we’ll accept nothing less than full appreciation.
A dangerous attitude because when someone works on a project—
whether it’ s a book or a business or otherwise—at a certain point, that thing
leaves their hands and enters the realm of the world. It is judged, received,
and acted on by other people.  It stops being something he controls and it
depends on them.
Belisarius could win his battles. He could lead his men. He could
determine his personal ethics. He could not control whether his work was
appreciated or whether it aroused suspicion. He had no ability to control
whether a powerful dictator would treat him well.
This reality rings essentially true for everyone in every kind of life. What
was so special about Belisarius was that he accepted the bar gain. Doing the
right thing was enough. Serving his country , his God, and doing his duty
faithfully was all that mattered. Any adversity could be endured and any
rewards were considered extra.
Which is good, because not only was he often not rewarded for the good
he did, he was punished  for it. That seems galling at first. Indignation is thereaction we’d have if it happened to us or someone we know . What was his
alternative? Should he have done the wrong thing instead?
W e are all faced with this same challenge in the pursuit of our own
goals: W ill we work hard for something that can be taken away from us?
W ill we invest time and ener gy even if an outcome is not guaranteed? W ith
the right motives we’re willing to proceed. W ith ego, we’re not.
W e have only minimal control over the rewards for our work and ef fort
—other people’ s validation, recognition, rewards. So what are we going to
do? Not be kind, not work hard, not produce, because there is a chance it
wouldn’ t be reciprocated? C’mon.
Think of all the activists who will find that they can only advance their
cause so far . The leaders who are assassinated before their work is done.
The inventors whose ideas languish “ahead of their time.” According to
society’ s main metrics, these people were not rewarded for their work.
Should they have not done it?
Y et in ego, every one of us has considered doing precisely that.
If that is your attitude, how do you intend to endure tough times? What if
you’re ahead of the times? What if the market favors some bogus trend?
What if your boss or your clients don’ t understand?
It’ s far better when doing good work is suf ficient. In other words, the
less attached we are to outcomes  the better . When fulfilling our own
standards is what fills us with pride and self-respect. When the ef fort—not
the results, good or bad—is enough.
W ith ego, this is not nearly suf ficient. No, we need to be recognized. W e
need to be compensated. Especially problematic is the fact that, often, we
get that. W e are praised, we are paid, and we start to assume that the two
things always go together . The “expectation hangover” inevitably ensues.
There was an unusual encounter between Alexander the Great and the
famous Cynic philosopher Diogenes. Allegedly , Alexander approached
Diogenes, who was lying down, enjoying the summer air , and stood over
him and asked what he, the most powerful man in the world, might be able
to do for this notoriously poor man. Diogenes could have asked for
anything. What he requested was epic: “Stop blocking my sun.” Even two
thousand years later we can feel exactly where in the solar plexus that must
have hit Alexander , a man who always wanted to prove how important he
was. As the author Robert Louis Stevenson later observed about thismeeting, “It is a sore thing to have labored along and scaled arduous
hilltops, and when all is done, find humanity indif ferent to your
achievement.”
W ell, get ready for it. It will happen. Maybe your parents will never be
impressed. Maybe your girlfriend won’ t care. Maybe the investor won’ t see
the numbers. Maybe the audience won’ t clap. But we have to be able to
push through. W e can’ t let that  be what motivates us.
Belisarius had one last run. He was found innocent of the char ges and his
honors restored—just in time to save the empire as a white-haired old man.
Except no, life is not a fairy tale. He was again wrongly suspected of
plotting against the emperor . In the famous Longfellow poem about our
poor general, at the end of his life he is impoverished and disabled. Y et he
concludes with great strength:
This, too, can bear;—I still
Am Belisarius!
Y ou will be unappreciated. Y ou will be sabotaged. Y ou will experience
surprising failures. Y our expectations will not be met. Y ou will lose. Y ou
will fail.
How do you carry on then? How do you take pride in yourself and your
work? John W ooden’ s advice to his players says it: Change the definition of
success. “Success is peace of mind, which is a direct result of self-
satisfaction in knowing you made the effort  to do your best to become the
best that you are capable of becoming.” “Ambition,” Marcus Aurelius
reminded himself, “means tying your well-being to what other people say
or do . . . Sanity means tying it to your own actions.”
Do your work. Do it well. Then “let go and let God.“ That’ s all there
needs to be.
Recognition and rewards—those are just extra. Rejection, that’ s on them,
not on us.
John Kennedy T oole’ s great book A  Confederacy of Dunces was
universally turned down by publishers, news that so broke his heart that he
later committed suicide in his car on an empty road in Biloxi, Mississippi.After his death, his mother discovered the book, advocated on its behalf
until it was published, and it eventually won the Pulitzer Prize.
Think about that for a second. What changed between those
submissions? Nothing. The book was the same. It was equally great when
T oole had it in manuscript form and had fought with editors about it as it
was when the book was published, sold copies, and won awards. If only he
could have realized this, it would have saved him so much heartbreak. He
couldn’ t, but from his painful example we can at least see how arbitrary
many of the breaks in life are.
This is why we can’ t let externals determine whether something was
worth it or not. It’ s on us.
The world is, after all, indif ferent to what we humans “want.” If we
persist in wanting, in needing,  we are simply setting ourselves up for
resentment or worse.
