to be learned, in all that is around us.ATHE DANGER OF EARL Y PRIDE
A proud man is always looking down on things and people; and, of course, as long as
you are looking down, you cannot see something that is above you.
— C .  S .  L E W I S
t eighteen, a rather triumphant Benjamin Franklin returned to visit
Boston, the city he’d run away from seven months before. Full of
pride and self-satisfaction, he had a new suit, a watch, and a pocketful of
coins that he spread out and showed to everyone he ran into—including his
older brother , whom he particularly hoped to impress. All posturing by a
boy who was not much more than an employee in a print shop in
Philadelphia.
In a meeting with Cotton Mather , one of the town’ s most respected
figures, and a former adversary , Franklin quickly illustrated just how
ridiculously inflated his young ego had become. Chatting with Mather as
they walked down a hallway , Mather suddenly admonished him, “Stoop!
Stoop!” T oo caught up in his performance, Franklin walked right into a low
ceiling beam. Mather ’ s response was perfect: “Let this be a caution to you
not always to hold your head so high,” he said wryly . “Stoop, young man,
stoop—as you go through this world—and you’ll miss many hard thumps.”
Christians believe that pride is a sin because it is a lie—it convinces
people that they are better than they are, that they are better than God made
them. Pride leads to arrogance and then away from humility and connection
with their fellow man.
Y ou don’ t have to be Christian to see the wisdom in this. Y ou need only
to care about your career to understand that pride—even in real
accomplishments—is a distraction and a deluder .“Whom the gods wish to destroy ,” Cyril Connolly famously said, “they
first call promising.” T wenty-five hundred years before that, the elegiac
poet Theognis wrote to his friend, “The first thing, Kurnos, which gods
bestow on one they would annihilate, is pride.” Y et we pick up this mantle
on purpose!
Pride blunts the very instrument we need to own in order to succeed: our
mind. Our ability to learn, to adapt, to be flexible, to build relationships, all
of this is dulled by pride. Most dangerously , this tends to happen either
early in life or in the process—when we’re flushed with beginner ’ s conceit.
Only later do you realize that that bump on the head was the least of what
was risked.
Pride takes a minor accomplishment and makes it feel like a major one.
It smiles at our cleverness and genius, as though what we’ve exhibited was
merely a hint of what ought to come. From the start, it drives a wedge
between the possessor and reality , subtly and not so subtly changing her
perceptions of what something is and what it isn’ t. It is these strong
opinions, only loosely secured by fact or accomplishment, that send us
careering toward delusion or worse.
Pride and ego say:
I am an entr epr eneur  because I struck out on my own.
I am going to win  because I am currently in the lead.
I am a writer because I published something.
I am rich because I made some money .
I am special  because I was chosen.
I am  important  because I think I should be.
At one time or another , we all indulge this sort of gratifying label
making. Y et every culture seems to produce words of caution against it.
Don’ t count your chickens before they hatch. Don’ t cook the sauce before
catching the fish. The way to cook a rabbit is first to catch a rabbit. Game
slaughtered by words cannot be skinned. Punching above your weight is
how you get injured. Pride goeth before the fall.
Let’ s call that attitude what it is: fraud. If you’re doing the work and
putting in the time, you won’ t need to cheat, you won’ t need toovercompensate.
Pride is a masterful encroacher . John D. Rockefeller , as a young man,
practiced a nightly conversation with himself. “Because you have got a
start,” he’d say aloud or write in his diary , “you think you are quite a
merchant; look out or you will lose your head—go steady .”
Early in his career , he’d had some success. He’d gotten a good job. He
was saving money . He had a few investments. Considering his father had
been a drunken swindler , this was no small feat. Rockefeller was on the
right track. Understandably , a sort of self-satisfaction with his
accomplishments—and the trajectory he was heading in—began to seep in.
In a moment of frustration, he once shouted at a bank of ficer who refused to
lend him money , “Some day I’ll be the richest man in the world!”
Let’ s count Rockefeller as maybe the only man in the world to say that
and then go on to become  the richest man in the world. But for every one of
him, there are a dozen more delusional assholes who said the exact same
thing and genuinely believed it, and then came nowhere close—in part
because their pride worked against them, and made other people hate them
too.
All of this was why Rockefeller knew he needed to rein himself in and to
privately manage his ego. Night after night he asked himself, “Are you
going to be a fool? Are you going to let this money puf f you up?” (However
small it was.) “Keep your eyes open,” he admonished himself. “Don’ t lose
your balance.”
As he later reflected, “I had a horror of the danger of arrogance. What a
pitiful thing it is when a man lets a little temporary success spoil him, warp
his judgment, and he for gets what he is!” It creates a sort of myopic,
onanistic obsession that warps perspective, reality , truth, and the world
around us. The childlike little prince in Saint-Exupéry’ s famous story makes
the same observation, lamenting that “vain men never hear anything but
praise.” That’ s exactly why we can’ t af ford to have it as a translator .
Receive feedback, maintain hunger , and chart a proper course in life.
Pride dulls these senses. Or in other cases, it tunes up other negative parts
of ourselves: sensitivity , a persecution complex, the ability to make
everything about us.
As the famous conqueror and warrior Genghis Khan groomed his sons
and generals to succeed him later in life, he repeatedly warned them, “Ifyou can’ t swallow your pride, you can’ t lead.” He told them that pride
would be harder to subdue than a wild lion. He liked the analogy of a
mountain. He would say , “Even the tallest mountains have animals that,
when they stand on it, are higher than the mountain.”
W e tend to be on guard against negativity , against the people who are
discouraging us from pursuing our callings or doubting the visions we have
for ourselves. This is certainly an obstacle to beware of, though dealing
with it is rather simple. What we cultivate less is how to protect ourselves
against the validation and gratification that will quickly come our way if we
show promise. What we don’ t protect ourselves against are people and
things that make us feel good—or rather , too good. W e must prepare for
pride and kill it early—or it will kill what we aspire to. W e must be on
guard against that wild self-confidence and self-obsession. “The first
product of self-knowledge is humility ,” Flannery O’Connor once said. This
is how we fight the ego, by really knowing ourselves.
The question to ask, when you feel pride, then, is this: What am I
missing right now that a more humble person might see? What am I
avoiding, or running from, with my bluster , franticness, and
embellishments? It is far better to ask and answer these questions now , with
the stakes still low , than it will be later .
It’ s worth saying: just because you are quiet doesn’ t mean that you are
without pride. Privately thinking you’re better than others is still pride. It’ s
still dangerous. “That on which you so pride yourself will be your ruin,”
Montaigne had inscribed on the beam of his ceiling. It’ s a quote from the
playwright Menander , and it ends with “you who think yourself to be
someone.”
W e are still striving, and it is the strivers who should be our peers—not
the proud and the accomplished. W ithout this understanding, pride takes our
self-conception and puts it at odds with the reality of our station, which is
that we still have so far to go, that there is still so much to be done.
After hitting his head and hearing from Mather , Franklin spent a lifetime
battling against his pride, because he wanted to do much and understood
that pride would made it much harder . Which is why , despite what would be
dizzying accomplishments in any era—wealth, fame, power—Franklin
never had to experience most of the “misfortunes brought upon people by
their carrying their heads too high.”At the end, this isn’ t about deferring pride because you don’ t deserve it
yet. It isn’ t “Don’ t boast about what hasn’ t happened yet.” It is more
