happens. W atch how much better you get.OT O BE OR T O DO?
In this formative period, the soul is unsoiled by warfare with the world. It lies, like a
block of pure, uncut Parian marble, ready to be fashioned into—what?
— O R I S O N  S W E T T  M A R D E N
ne of the most influential strategists and practitioners in modern
warfare is someone most people have never heard of. His name was
John Boyd.
He was a truly great fighter pilot, but an even better teacher and thinker .
After flying in Korea, he became the lead instructor at the elite Fighter
W eapons School at Nellis Air Force Base. He was known as “Forty-Second
Boyd”—meaning that he could defeat any opponent, from any position, in
less than forty seconds. A few years later he was quietly summoned to the
Pentagon, where his real work began.
In one sense, the fact that the average person might not have heard of
John Boyd is not unexpected. He never published any books and he wrote
only one academic paper . Only a few videos of him survive and he was
rarely , if ever , quoted in the media. Despite nearly thirty years of
impeccable service, Boyd wasn’ t promoted above the rank of colonel.
On the other hand, his theories transformed maneuver warfare in almost
every branch of the armed forces, not just in his own lifetime but even more
so after . The F-15 and F-16 fighter jets, which reinvented modern military
aircraft, were his pet projects. His primary influence was as an adviser;
through legendary briefings he taught and instructed nearly every major
military thinker in a generation. His input on the war plans for Operation
Desert Shield came in a series of direct meetings with the secretary of
defense, not through public or of ficial policy input. His primary means ofef fecting change was through the collection of pupils he mentored,
protected, taught, and inspired.
There are no military bases named after him. No battleships. He retired
assuming that he’d be for gotten, and without much more than a small
apartment and a pension to his name. He almost certainly had more enemies
than friends.
This unusual path—What if it were deliberate? What if it made him
mor e influential? How crazy would that be?
In fact, Boyd was simply living the exact lesson he tried to teach each
promising young acolyte who came under his wing, who he sensed had the
potential to be something—to be something dif ferent. The rising stars he
taught probably have a lot in common with us.
The speech Boyd gave to a protégé in 1973 makes this clear . Sensing
what he knew to be a critical inflection point in the life of the young of ficer ,
Boyd called him in for a meeting. Like many high achievers, the soldier
was insecure and impressionable. He wanted to be promoted, and he wanted
to do well. He was a leaf that could be blown in any direction and Boyd
knew it. So he heard a speech that day that Boyd would give again and
again, until it became a tradition and a rite of passage for a generation of
transformative military leaders.
“T iger , one day you will come to a fork in the road,” Boyd said to him.
“And you’re going to have to make a decision about which direction you
want to go.” Using his hands to illustrate, Boyd marked of f these two
directions. “If you go that way you can be somebody . Y ou will have to
make compromises and you will have to turn your back on your friends.
But you will be a member of the club and you will get promoted and you
will get good assignments.” Then Boyd paused, to make the alternative
clear . “Or ,” he said, “you can go that way and you can do something—
something for your country and for your Air Force and for yourself. If you
decide you want to do something, you may not get promoted and you may
not get the good assignments and you certainly will not be a favorite of
your superiors. But you won’ t have to compromise yourself. Y ou will be
true to your friends and to yourself. And your work might make a
dif ference. T o be somebody or to do something. In life there is often a roll
call. That’ s when you will have to make a decision.”And then Boyd concluded with words that would guide that young man
and many of his peers for the rest of their lives. “T o be or to do? Which way
will you go?”
Whatever we seek to do in life, reality soon intrudes on our youthful
idealism. This reality comes in many names and forms: incentives,
commitments, recognition, and politics. In every case, they can quickly
redirect us from doing  to being.  From earning  to pr etending. Ego aids in
that deception every step of the way . It’ s why Boyd wanted young people to
see that if we are not careful, we can very easily find ourselves corrupted by
the very occupation we wish to serve.
How do you prevent derailment? W ell, often we fall in love with an
image  of what success looks like. In Boyd’ s world, the number of stars on
your shoulder or the nature of your appointment or its location could easily
be confused as a proxy for real accomplishment. For other people, it’ s their
job title, the business school they went to, the number of assistants they
have, the location of their parking space, the grants they earn, their access
to the CEO, the size of their paycheck, or the number of fans they have.
Appearances are deceiving. Having authority is not the same as being  an
authority . Having the right and being  right are not the same either . Being
promoted doesn’ t necessarily mean you’re doing good work and it doesn’ t
mean you are worthy of promotion (they call it failing upward in such
bureaucracies). Impr essing people is utterly differ ent fr om being truly
impr essive.
So who are you with? Which side will you choose? This is the roll call
that life puts before us.
Boyd had another exercise. V isiting with or speaking to groups of Air
Force of ficers, he’d write on the chalkboard in big letters the words: DUTY ,
HONOR, COUNTR Y . Then he would cross those words out and replace
them with three others: PRIDE, POWER, GREED. His point was that many
of the systems and structures in the military—the ones that soldiers navigate
in order to get ahead—can corrupt the very values they set out to serve.
There’ s a quip from the historian W ill Durant, that a nation is born stoic and
dies epicurean. That’ s the sad truth Boyd was illustrating, how positive
virtues turn sour .
How many times have we seen this played out in our own short lives—in
sports, in relationships, or projects or people that we care deeply about?This is what the ego does. It crosses out what matters and replaces it with
what doesn’ t.
A lot of people want to change the world, and it’ s good that they do. Y ou
want to be the best at what you do. Nobody wants  to just be an empty suit.
But in practical terms, which of the three words Boyd wrote on the
chalkboard are going to get you there? Which are you practicing now?
What’ s fueling you?
The choice that Boyd puts in front of us comes down to purpose. What is
your purpose? What ar e you her e to do? Because purpose helps you answer
the question “T o be or to do?“ quite easily . If what matters is you —your
reputation, your inclusion, your personal ease of life—your path is clear:
T ell people what they want to hear . Seek attention over the quiet but
important work. Say yes to promotions and generally follow the track that
talented people take in the industry or field you’ve chosen. Pay your dues,
check the boxes, put in your time, and leave things essentially as they are.
Chase your fame, your salary , your title, and enjoy them as they come.
“A man is worked upon by what he works on,” Frederick Douglass once
said. He would know . He’d been a slave, and he saw what it did to everyone
involved, including the slaveholders themselves .  Once a free man, he saw
that the choices people made, about their careers and their lives, had the
same ef fect. What you choose to do with your time and what you choose to
do for money works on you. The egocentric path requires, as Boyd knew ,
many compromises.
If your purpose is something lar ger than you—to accomplish something,
to prove something to yourself—then suddenly everything becomes both
easier and more dif ficult. Easier in the sense that you know now what it is
you need to do and what is important to you. The other “choices” wash
away , as they aren’ t really choices at all. They’re distractions. It’ s about the
doing,  not the recognition. Easier in the sense that you don’ t need to
compromise. Harder because each opportunity—no matter how gratifying
or rewarding—must be evaluated along strict guidelines: Does this help me
do what I have set out to do? Does this allow  me to do what I need to do?
Am I being selfish or self less ?
In this course, it is not “Who do I want to be in life?” but “What is it that
I want to accomplish in life?” Setting aside selfish interest, it asks: Whatcalling does it serve? What principles govern my choices? Do I want to be
like everyone else or do I want to do something dif ferent?
In other words, it’ s harder because everything  can seem like a
compromise.
Although it’ s never too late, the earlier you ask yourself these questions
the better .
Boyd undeniably changed and improved his field in a way that almost no
other theorist has since Sun Tzu or von Clausewitz. He was known as
Genghis John for the way he never let obstacles or opponents stop him from
what he needed to do. His choices were not without their costs. He was also
known as the ghetto colonel because of his frugal lifestyle. He died with a
drawerful of thousands of dollars in uncashed expense checks from private
contractors, which he equated with bribes. That he never advanced above
colonel was not his doing; he was repeatedly held back for promotions. He
was for gotten by history as a punishment for the work he did.
Think about this the next time you start to feel entitled, the next time you
conflate fame and the American Dream. Think about how you might
measure up to a great man like that.
Think about this the next time you face that choice: Do I need this? Or is
it really about ego? Are you ready to make the right decision? Or do the
prizes still glitter of f in the distance?
