Because that’ s the only thing that will keep us here.AWHA T’S IMPOR T ANT T O YOU?
T o know what you like is the beginning of wisdom and of old age.
— R O B E R T  L O U I S  S T E V E N S O N
t the end of the Civil W ar , Ulysses S. Grant and his friend W illiam
T ecumseh Sherman were two of the most respected and important
men in America. Essentially the dual architects of the Union’ s victory , a
grateful country , with a snap of its fingers, said: Whatever you like, as long
as you live, is yours.
W ith this freedom at their disposal, Sherman and Grant took dif ferent
paths. Sherman, whose track we followed earlier , abhorred politics and
repeatedly declined entreaties to run for of fice. “I have all the rank I want,”
he told them. Having seemingly mastered his ego, he would later retire to
New Y ork City , where he lived in what was, by all appearances, happiness
and contentment.
Grant, who had expressed almost no prior interest in politics, and, in
fact, had succeeded as a general precisely because he didn’ t know how to
play politics, chose instead to pursue the highest of fice in the land: the
presidency . Elected by a landslide, he then presided over one of the most
corrupt, contentious, and least ef fective administrations in American
history . A genuinely good and loyal individual, he was not cut out for the
dirty world of W ashington, and it made quick work of him. He left of fice a
maligned and controversial figure after two exhausting terms, almost
surprised by how poorly it had gone.
After the presidency , Grant invested almost every penny he had to create
a financial brokerage house with a controversial investor named Ferdinand
W ard. W ard, a Bernie Madof f of his day , turned it into a Ponzi scheme, and
publicly bankrupted Grant. As Sherman wrote with sympathy andunderstanding of his friend, Grant had “aimed to rival the millionaires, who
would have given their all to have won any of his battles.” Grant had
accomplished so much, but to him, it wasn’ t enough. He couldn’ t decide
what was important—what actually mattered—to him.
That’ s how it seems to go: we’re never happy with what we  have, we
want what others have too. W e want to have mor e than everyone else. W e
start out knowing what is important to us, but once we’ve achieved it, we
lose sight of our priorities. Ego sways us, and can ruin us.
Compelled by his sense of honor to cover the debts of the firm, Grant
took out a loan using his priceless war mementos as collateral. Broken in
mind, spirit, and body , the last years of his life found him battling painful
throat cancer , and racing to finish his memoirs so that he might leave his
family with something to live on. He made it, just barely .
One shudders to think of the vital forces drained from this hero, who
died at just sixty-three in agony and defeat, this straightforward, honest man
who just couldn’ t help himself, who couldn’ t manage to focus, and ended
up far outside the bounds of his ample genius. What could he have done
with those years instead? How might have America looked otherwise? How
much more could he have done and accomplished?
Not that he is unique in this regard. All of us regularly say yes
unthinkingly , or out of vague attraction, or out of greed or vanity . Because
we can’ t say no—because we might miss out on something if we did. W e
think “yes” will let us accomplish more, when in reality it prevents exactly
what we seek. All of us waste precious life doing things we don’ t like, to
prove ourselves to people we don’ t respect, and to get things we don’ t want.
Why do we do this? W ell, it should be obvious by now .
Ego leads to envy and it rots the bones of people big and small. Ego
undermines greatness by deluding its holder .
Most of us begin with a clear idea of what we want in life. W e know
what’ s important to us. The success we achieve, especially if it comes early
or in abundance, puts us in an unusual place. Because now , all of a sudden,
we’re in a new place and have trouble keeping our bearings.
The farther you travel down that path of accomplishment, whatever it
may be, the more often you meet other successful people who make you
feel insignificant. It doesn’ t matter how well you’re doing; your ego and
their accomplishments make you feel like nothing— just as others makethem feel the same way . It’ s a cycle that goes on ad infinitum . . . while our
brief time on earth—or the small window of opportunity we have here—
does not.
So we unconsciously pick up the pace to keep up with others. But what
if dif ferent people are running for dif ferent reasons? What if there is more
than one race going on?
That’ s what Sherman was saying about Grant. There is a certain “Gift of
the Magi” irony in how badly we chase what will not be truly pleasurable.
At the very least, it won’ t last. If only we could all stop for a second.
Let’ s be clear: competitiveness is an important force in life. It’ s what
drives the market and is behind some of mankind’ s most impressive
accomplishments. On an individual level, however , it’ s absolutely critical
that you know who  you’re competing with and why , that you have a clear
sense of the space you’re in.
Only you know the race you’re running. That is, unless your ego decides
the only way you have value is if you’re better  than,  have mor e  than,
everyone everywher e. More ur gently , each one of us has a unique potential
and purpose; that means that we’re the only ones who can evaluate and set
the terms of our lives. Far too often, we look at other people and make their
approval the standard we feel compelled to meet, and as a result, squander
our very potential and purpose.
According to Seneca, the Greek word euthymia  is one we should think of
often: it is the sense of our own path and how to stay on it without getting
distracted by all the others that intersect it. In other words, it’ s not about
beating the other guy . It’ s not about having more than the others. It’ s about
being what you are, and being as good as possible at it, without succumbing
to all the things that draw you away from it. It’ s about going where you set
out to go. About accomplishing the most that you’re capable of in what you
choose. That’ s it. No more and no less. (By the way , euthymia  means
“tranquillity” in English.)
It’ s time to sit down and think about what’ s truly important to you and
then take steps to forsake the rest. W ithout this, success will not be
pleasurable, or nearly as complete as it could be. Or worse, it won’ t last.
This is especially true with money . If you don’ t know how much you
need, the default easily becomes: more. And so without thinking, critical
ener gy is diverted from a person’ s calling and toward filling a bank account.When “you combine insecurity and ambition,” the plagiarist and disgraced
journalist Jonah Lehrer said when reflecting back on his fall, “you get an
inability to say no to things.”
Ego rejects trade-of fs. Why compromise? Ego wants it all.
Ego tells you to cheat, though you love your spouse. Because you want
what you have and  what you don’ t have. Ego says that sure, even though
you’re just starting to get the hang of one thing, why not jump right in the
middle of another? Eventually , you say yes to too much, to something too
far beyond the pale. W e’re like Captain Ahab, chasing Moby Dick, for
reasons we don’ t even understand anymore.
Maybe your priority actually is money . Or maybe it’ s family . Maybe it’ s
influence or change. Maybe it’ s building an or ganization that lasts, or serves
a purpose. All of these are perfectly fine motivations. But you do need to
know . Y ou need to know what you don’ t want and what your choices
preclude. Because strategies are often mutually exclusive. One cannot be an
opera singer and  a teen pop idol at the same time. Life requires those trade-
of fs, but ego can’ t allow it.
So why do you do what you do? That’ s the question you need to answer .
Stare at it until you can. Only then will you understand what matters and
what doesn’ t. Only then can you say no, can you opt out of stupid races that
don’ t matter , or even exist. Only then is it easy to ignore “successful”
people, because most of the time they aren’ t—at least relative to you, and
often even to themselves. Only then can you develop that quiet confidence
Seneca talked about.
The more you have and do, the harder maintaining fidelity to your
purpose will be, but the more critically you will need to. Everyone buys into
the myth that if  only they had that— usually what someone else has—they
would be happy . It may take getting burned a few times to realize the
emptiness of this illusion. W e all occasionally find ourselves in the middle
of some project or obligation and can’ t understand why we’re there. It will
take courage and faith to stop yourself.
Find out why you’re after what you’re after . Ignore those who mess with
your pace. Let them covet what you have, not the other way around.
