directly “Don’ t boast.” There’ s nothing in it for you.TWORK, WORK, WORK
The best plan is only good intentions unless it degenerates into work.
— P E T E R  D R U C K E R
he painter Edgar Degas, though best known for his beautiful
Impressionist paintings of dancers, toyed briefly with poetry . As a
brilliant and creative mind, the potential for great poems was all there—he
could see beauty , he could find inspiration. Y et there are no great Degas
poems. There is one famous conversation that might explain why . One day ,
Degas complained to his friend, the poet Stéphane Mallarmé, about his
trouble writing. “I can’ t manage to say what I want, and yet I’m full of
ideas.” Mallarmé’ s response cuts to the bone. “It’ s not with ideas, my dear
Degas, that one makes verse. It’ s with words.”
Or rather , with work.
The distinction between a professional and a dilettante occurs right there
—when you accept that having an idea is not enough; that you must work
until you are able to recreate your experience ef fectively in words on the
page. As the philosopher and writer Paul V aléry explained in 1938, “A
poet’ s function . . . is not to experience the poetic state: that is a private
af fair . His function is to create it in others.” That is, his job is to produce
work.
T o be both a craftsman and an artist. T o cultivate a product of labor and
industry instead of just a product of the mind. It’ s here where abstraction
meets the road and the real, where we trade thinking and talking for
working.
“Y ou can’ t build a reputation on what you’re going to do,” was how
Henry Ford put it. The sculptor Nina Holton hit the same note in
psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi’ s landmark study on creativity . “Thatgerm of an idea,” she told him, “does not make a sculpture which stands up.
It just sits there. So the next stage, of course, is the hard work.” The
investor and serial entrepreneur Ben Horowitz put it more bluntly: “The
hard thing isn’ t setting a big, hairy , audacious goal. The hard thing is laying
people of f when you miss the big goal. . . . The hard thing isn’ t dreaming
big. The hard thing is waking up in the middle of the night in a cold sweat
when the dream turns into a nightmare.”
Sure, you get it. Y ou know that all things require work and that work
might be quite dif ficult. But do you r eally  understand? Do you have any
idea just how much work there is going to be? Not work until you get your
big break, not work until you make a name for yourself, but work, work,
work, forever and ever .
Is it ten thousand hours or twenty thousand hours to mastery? The
answer is that it doesn’ t matter . There is no end zone. T o think of a number
is to live in a conditional future. W e’re simply talking about a lot of hours—
that to get where we want to go isn’ t about brilliance, but continual ef fort.
While that’ s not a terribly sexy idea, it should be an encouraging one.
Because it means it’ s all within reach—for all of us, provided we have the
constitution and humbleness to be patient and the fortitude to put in the
work.
By this point, you probably understand why the ego would bristle at this
idea. W ithin r each?! it complains. That means you’r e saying I don’ t have it
now .  Exactly right. Y ou don’ t. No one does.
Our ego wants the ideas and the fact that we aspire to do something
about them to be enough. W ants the hours we spend planning  and attending
conferences or chatting with impressed friends to count toward the tally that
success seems to require. It wants to be paid well for its time and it wants to
do the fun stuf f—the stuf f that gets attention, credit, or glory .
That’ s the reality . Where we decide to put our ener gy decides what we’ll
ultimately accomplish.
As a young man, Bill Clinton began a collection of note cards upon
which he would write names and phone numbers of friends and
acquaintances who might be of service when he eventually entered politics.
Each night, before he ever had a reason to, he would flip through the box,
make phone calls, write letters, or add notations about their interactions.
Over the years, this collection grew—to ten thousand cards (before it waseventually digitized). It’ s what put him in the Oval Of fice and continues to
return dividends.
Or think of Darwin, working for decades on his theory of evolution,
refraining from publishing it because it wasn’ t yet perfect. Hardly anyone
knew what he was working on. No one said, Hey Charles, it’ s okay that
you’r e taking so long, because what you’r e working on is just so important .
They didn’ t know . He  couldn’ t have known. He just knew that it wasn’ t
done yet, that it could be better , and that that was enough to keep him
going.
So: Do we sit down, alone, and struggle with our work? W ork that may
or may not go anywhere, that may be discouraging or painful? Do we love
work, making a living to do work, not the other way around? Do we love
practice, the way great athletes do? Or do we chase short-term attention and
validation—whether that’ s indulging in the endless search for ideas  or
simply the distraction of talk and chatter?
Fac, si facis.  (Do it if you’re going to do it.)
There is another apt Latin expression: Materiam superabat opus. (The
workmanship was better than the material.) The material we’ve been given
genetically , emotionally , financially , that’ s where we begin. W e don’ t
control that. W e do control what we make of that material, and whether we
squander it.
As a young basketball player , Bill Bradley would remind himself,
“When you are not practicing, remember , someone somewhere is
practicing, and when you meet him he will win.” The Bible says something
similar in its own way: “Blessed are those servants whom the master finds
awake when he comes.” Y ou can lie to yourself, saying that you put in the
time, or pretend that you’re working, but eventually someone will show up.
Y ou’ll be tested. And quite possibly , found out.
Since Bradley went on to be an All-American, a Rhodes Scholar , then a
two-time champion with the New Y ork Knicks and a U.S. senator , you get
the sense that this sort of dedication will take you places.
So we must have it. Because there is no triumph without toil.
W ouldn’ t it be great if work was as simple as opening a vein and letting
the genius pour out? Or if you could walk into that meeting and spit
brilliance of f the top of your head? Y ou walk up to the canvas, hurl yourpaint at it, and modern art emer ges, right? That is the fantasy—rather , that
is the lie.
Back to another popular old trope: Fake it ’ til you make it. It’ s no
surprise that such an idea has found increasing relevance in our noxiously
bullshit, Nerf world. When it is dif ficult to tell a real producer from an
adept self-promoter , of course some people will roll the dice and manage to
play the confidence game. Make it so you don’ t have to fake it—that’ s they
key . Can you imagine a doctor trying to get by with anything less? Or a
quarterback, or a bull rider? More to the point, would you want them to? So
why would you try otherwise?
Every time you sit down to work, remind yourself: I am delaying
gratification by doing this. I am passing the marshmallow test. I am earning
what my ambition burns for . I am making an investment in myself instead
of in my ego. Give yourself a little credit for this choice, but not so much,
because you’ve got to get back to the task at hand: practicing, working,
improving.
W ork is finding yourself alone at the track when the weather kept
everyone else indoors. W ork is pushing through the pain and crappy first
drafts and prototypes. It is ignoring whatever plaudits others are getting,
and more importantly , ignoring whatever plaudits you  may be getting.
Because there is work to be done. W ork doesn’ t want  to be good. It is made
so, despite the headwind.
There is another old expression: Y ou know a workman by the chips they
leave. It’ s true. T o judge your progress properly , just take a look at the floor .WFOR EVER YTHING THA T COMES NEXT , EGO IS THE
ENEMY  . . .
’T is a common proof,
That lowliness is young ambition’ s ladder .
— S H A K E S P E A R E
e know where we want to end up: success. W e want to matter .
W ealth and recognition and reputation are nice too. W e want it all.
The problem is that we’re not sure that humility can get us there. W e are
petrified, as the Reverend Dr . Sam W ells put it, that if we are humble, we
will end up “subjugated, trodden on, embarrassed and irrelevant.”
Midway through his career , if you’d asked our model Sherman how he
felt, he probably would have described himself in almost exactly those
terms. He had not made much money . He had won no great battles. He had
not seen his name in lights or headlines. He might have, at that moment,
before the Civil W ar , begun to question the path he’d chosen, and whether
those who follow it finished last.
This is the thinking that creates the Faustian bar gain that turns most
clean ambition into shameless addiction. In the early stages, ego can be
temporarily adaptive. Craziness can pass for audaciousness. Delusions can
pass for confidence, ignorance for courage. But it’ s just kicking the costs
down the road.
Because no one ever said, reflecting on the whole of someone’ s life,
“Man, that monstrous ego sure was worth it.”
The internal debate about confidence calls to mind a well-known concept
from the radio pioneer Ira Glass, which could be called the T aste/T alent
Gap.All of us who do creative work . . . we get into it because we have
good taste. But it’ s like there’ s a gap, that for the first couple years
that you’re making stuf f, what you’re making isn’ t so good . . . It’ s
really not that great. It’ s trying  to be good, it has ambition to be good,
but it’ s not quite that good. But your taste—the thing that got you into
the game—your taste is still killer , and your taste is good enough that
you can tell that what you’re making is kind of a disappointment to
you.
It is in precisely this gap that ego can seem comforting. Who wants to
look at themselves and their work and find that it does not measure up? And
so here we might bluster our way through. Cover up hard truths with sheer
force of personality and drive and passion. Or ,  we can face our
shortcomings honestly and put the time in. W e can let this humble us, see
clearly where we are talented and where we need to improve, and then put
in the work to bridge that gap. And we can set upon positive habits that will
last a lifetime.
If ego was tempting in Sherman’ s time, in this era, we are like Lance
Armstrong training for the 1999 T our de France. W e are Barry Bonds
debating whether to walk into the BALCO clinic. W e flirt with arrogance
and deceit, and in the process grossly overstate the importance of winning
at all costs. Everyone is juicing, the ego says to us, you should too. Ther e’ s
no way to beat them without it, we think .
Of course, what is truly ambitious is to face life and proceed with quiet
confidence in spite of the distractions. Let others grasp at crutches. It will
be a lonely fight to be real, to say “I’m not going to take the edge of f.” T o
say , “I am going to be myself, the best version of that self. I am in this for
the long game, no matter how brutal it might be.” T o do, not be.
For Sherman, it was precisely his choice that prepared him for the time
his country and history most needed him—and allowed him to navigate the
massive responsibilities that shortly came his way . In this quiet crucible,
he’d for ged a personality that was ambitious but patient, innovative without
being brash, brave without being dangerous. He was a r eal  leader .
Y ou have a chance to do this yourself. T o play a dif ferent game, to be
utterly  audacious in your aims. Because what comes next is going to testyou in ways that you cannot begin to understand. For ego is a wicked sister
of success.
And you’re about to experience what that means.S U C C E S S
Here we are at the top of a mountain we worked hard to climb—or at least the summit is in
sight. Now we face new temptations and problems. W e breathe thinner air in an unfor giving
environment. Why is success so ephemeral? Ego shortens it. Whether a collapse is dramatic or
a slow erosion, it’ s always possible and often unnecessary . W e stop learning, we stop
listening, and we lose our grasp on what matters. W e become victims of ourselves and the
competition. Sobriety , open-mindedness, or ganization, and purpose—these are the great
stabilizers. They balance out the ego and pride that comes with achievement and recognition.
A
T wo dif ferent characters are presented to our emulation; the one, of proud ambition and
ostentatious avidity . The other , of humble modesty and equitable justice. T wo dif ferent
models, two dif ferent pictures, are held out to us, according to which we may fashion
our own character and behaviour; the one more gaudy and glittering in its colouring;
the other more correct and more exquisitely beautiful in its outline .
— A D A M  S M I T H
t a business meeting in January 1924, Howard Hughes Sr ., the
successful inventor and tool magnate, stood up, convulsed, and died
from a sudden heart attack at the age of fifty-four . His son, a quiet,
reserved, and sheltered boy of just eighteen, inherited three fourths of the
private company , which held patents and leases critical to oil drilling, worth
nearly $1 million. V arious family members were bequeathed the remaining
shares.
In a move of almost incomprehensible foresight, the young Hughes,
whom many saw as a spoiled little boy , made the decision to buy out his
relatives and control the entire company himself. Against their objections
and still legally considered a minor , Hughes leveraged his personal assets
and nearly all the company’ s funds to purchase the stock, and in doing so,
consolidated ownership of a business that would create billions of dollars of
cash profit over the next century .
It was a bold move for a young man with essentially zero experience in
business. And it was with similar boldness that over his career he would
create one of the most embarrassing, wasteful, and dishonest business track
records in history . In retrospect, his years at the helm of the Hughes empire
resemble a deranged crime spree more than a capitalistic enterprise.
One cannot ar gue whether Hughes was gifted, visionary , and brilliant.
He just was. Literally a mechanical genius, he was also one of the best and
bravest pilots in the pioneer days of aviation. And as a businessman and
filmmaker he had the ability to predict wide, sweeping changes that came to
transform not just the industries he was involved in, but America itself.Y et, after filtering out his acumen from the legend, glamour , and self-
promotion at which he was so adept, only one image remains: an egomaniac
who evaporated  hundr eds of millions of dollars of his own wealth and met a
miserable, pathetic end. Not by accident, not because he was beset by
unforeseen circumstances or competition, but almost exclusively due to his
own actions.
A quick rundown of his feats—if you can call them that—provides a
stark perspective:
After purchasing control of his father ’ s tool company from his family ,
Hughes abandoned it almost immediately except to repeatedly siphon of f its
cash. He left Houston and never stepped foot in the company’ s headquarters
again. He moved to Los Angeles, where he decided to become a film
producer and celebrity . T rading stocks from his bedside, he lost more than
$8 million in the market leading up to the Depression. His most well-known
movie, Hell’ s Angels , took three years to make, lost $1.5 million on a
budget of $4.2 million, and nearly bankrupted the tool company in the
process. Then, not having learned a lesson the first time, Hughes lost
another $4 million on Chrysler stock in early 1930.
He then put all this aside to enter the aviation business, creating a
defense contractor called the Hughes Aircraft Company . Despite some
astounding personal achievements as an inventor , Hughes’ s company was a
failure. His two contracts during W orld W ar II, worth $40 million, were
massive failures at the expense of the American taxpayer and himself. The
most notable, the Spruce Goose— which Hughes called the Her cules  and
which was one of the biggest planes ever made—took more than five years
to develop, cost roughly $20 million, and flew just a single time for barely a
mile, only 70 feet above the water . At his insistence and expense, it then sat
in an air -conditioned hangar in Long Beach for decades at the cost of $1
million a year . Deciding to double down on the film business, Hughes
purchased the movie studio RKO and produced losses of over $22 million
(and went from two thousand employees to fewer than five hundred as he
ran it into the ground over several years). T iring of these businesses as he
had of the tool company , he forsook defense contracting and handed it of f to
executives to run, where it slowly began to thrive . . . because of his
absence.It would make sense to stop here to avoid belaboring the issue—but that
would risk skipping Hughes’ s egregious tax fraud; the plane crashes and
fatal car accidents; the millions he wasted on private investigators, lawyers,
contracts for starlets he refused to let act, property he never lived in; the fact
that the only thing that got him to behave responsibly was the threat of
public exposure; the paranoia, racism, and bullying; the failed marriages;
the drug addiction; and dozens of other ventures and businesses he
mismanaged.
“That we have made a hero out of Howard Hughes,” a young Joan
Didion wrote, “tells us something interesting about ourselves.” She’ s
absolutely right. For Howard Hughes, despite his reputation, was quite
possibly one of the worst businessmen of the twentieth century . Usually a
bad businessman fails and ceases to be in business anymore, making it hard
to see what truly caused his failures. But thanks to the steady chain of
profits from his father ’ s company , which he found too boring to interfere
with, Hughes was able to stay afloat, allowing us to see the damage that his
ego repeatedly wrought—to himself as a person, to the people around him,
to what he wanted to accomplish.
There is a scene from Howard’ s slow descent into madness that bears
illustrating. His biographers have him sitting naked in his favorite white
chair , unwashed, unkempt, working around the clock to battle lawyers,
investigations, investors, in an attempt to save his empire and to hide his
shameful secrets. One minute he would dictate some irrational multipage
memo about Kleenex, food preparation, or how employees should not speak
to him directly , and then he would turn around and seize upon a genuinely
brilliant strategy to outrun his creditors and enemies. It was as if, they
observed, his mind and business were split in two parts. It was as if, they
wrote, “IBM had deliberately established a pair of subsidiaries, one to
produce computers and profits, another to manufacture Edsels and losses.”
If someone was looking for a flesh-and-blood metaphor for ego and
destruction, it would be hard to do better than this image of a man working
furiously with one hand toward a goal and with the other working equally
hard to undermine it.
Howard Hughes, like all of us, was not completely crazy or completely
sane. His ego, fueled and exacerbated by physical injuries (mostly from
plane and car crashes for which he was at fault) and various addictions, ledhim into a darkness that we can scarcely comprehend. There were brief
moments of lucidity when the sharp mind of Hughes broke through—times
when he made some of his best moves—but as he progressed through life,
these moments became increasingly rare. Eventually , ego killed Howard
Hughes as much as the mania and trauma did—if they were ever separate to
begin with.
Y ou can only see this if you want to see it. It’ s more attractive and
exciting to see the rebel billionaire, the eccentric, the world renown, and the
fame, and think: Oh, how  I want that.  Y ou do not. Howard Hughes, like so
many wealthy people, died in an asylum of his own making. He felt little
joy . He enjoyed almost nothing of what he had. Most importantly , he
wasted . He wasted so much talent, so much bravery , and so much ener gy .
W ithout virtue and training, Aristotle observed, “it is hard to bear the
results of good fortune suitably .” W e can learn from Hughes because he was
so publicly and visibly unable to bear his birthright properly . His endless
taste for the spotlight, no matter how unflattering, gives us an opportunity
to see our own tendencies, our own struggles with success and luck,
refracted back through his tumultuous life. His enormous ego and its
destructive path through Hollywood, through the defense industry , through
W all Street, through the aviation industry give us a look inside someone
who was repeatedly felled by impulses we all have.
Of course, he’ s far from the only person in history to follow such an arc.
W ill you follow his trajectory?
Sometimes ego is suppressed on the ascent. Sometimes an idea is so
powerful or timing is so perfect (or one is born into wealth or power) that it
can temporarily support or even compensate for a massive ego. As success
arrives, like it does for a team that has just won a championship, ego begins
to toy with our minds and weaken the will that made us win in the first
place. W e know that empires always fall, so we must think about why—and
why they seem to always collapse from within.
Harold Geneen was the CEO who more or less invented the concept of
the modern international conglomerate. Through a series of acquisitions,
mer gers, and takeovers (more than 350 in all), he took a small company
called ITT from $1 million in revenues in 1959 to nearly $17 billion  in
1977, the year he retired. Some claimed that Geneen himself was an egotist—in any case, he spoke candidly about the ef fects that ego had in his
industry and warned executives against it.
“The worst disease which can af flict business executives in their work is
not, as popularly supposed, alcoholism; it’ s egotism,” Geneen famously
said. In the Mad Men  era of corporate America, there was a major drinking
problem, but ego has the same roots—insecurity , fear , a dislike for brutal
objectivity . “Whether in middle management or top management, unbridled
personal egotism blinds a man to the realities around him; more and more
he comes to live in a world of his own imagination; and because he
sincerely believes he can do no wrong, he becomes a menace to the men
and women who have to work under his direction,” he wrote in his
memoirs.
Here we are having accomplished something. After we give ourselves
proper credit, ego wants us to think, I’m special . I’m better . The rules don’ t
apply to me.
“Man is pushed by drives,” V iktor Frankl observed. “But he is pulled by
values.” Ruled by or ruling ? Which are you? W ithout the right values,
success is brief. If we wish to do more than flash, if we wish to last, then it
is time to understand how to battle this new form of ego and what values
and principles are required in order to beat it.
Success is intoxicating, yet to sustain it requires sobriety . W e can’ t keep
learning if we think we already know everything. W e cannot buy into myths
we make ourselves, or the noise and chatter of the outside world. W e must
understand that we are a small part of an interconnected universe. On top of
all this, we have to build an or ganization and a system around what we do
—one that is about the work  and not about us.
The verdict on Hughes is in. Ego wrecked him. A similar judgment
awaits us all at some point. Over the course of your own career , you will
face the choices that he did—that all people do. Whether you built your
empire from nothing or inherited it, whether your wealth is financial or
merely a cultivated talent, entropy is seeking to destroy it as you read this.
Can you handle success? Or will it be the worst thing that ever happened
