It's just it's just wild how far God has taken it.

I don't even know. And it's crazy. I was telling Tim like it's really like a testament to the Holy Spirit cuz he and I don't script anything, you know? I was like, I wonder if we start scripting stuff where it get better. But we don't. We haven't. Last year we just freestyling.

Yeah. That's that's the that's the beauty of number one relationship.

Facts.

Both of us. It's evident. We in our pray closet.

Facts.

It's evident. We in our word. facts.

And then you bring that together, it's just like iron sharpens iron.

Facts.

You know what I'm saying? Like my Sundays are better because of these days.

You know, so it's just

What's up, family? You're now tuned into the Street Preachers podcast with your host Tim Timberlake and Philip Anthony Mitchell. We're honored that you're here and we pray that you're blessed by the content you're about to receive. What's going on street team? It is another phenomenal day because we get an opportunity to drop another episode walking through the word of God. And uh this season it just it feels different. Yeah. It it feels great. It feels uh very led by the Holy Spirit. And we're so honored to be on this journey uh with you. If this is your first episode of the Street Preachers podcast, welcome to the Street Team. You're officially a Street Team member. on the street team is just our collective family all over the world that is helping to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ being intentional uh with your relationship with Jesus and going on this journey of disciplehip with us as we walk through the word of God. Uh this episode it is going to be loaded in scripture. Uh but before we get to the text uh we are going back on tour and uh we are going back on tour not too long from now. And so I want to encourage you to go to street preachers.tv, find out all the details and informations that are there. Uh also I would encourage you to put in your information in the newsletter so that you can stay up to date with everything that we have launching, everything that we are releasing. Uh my brother Phil's book is coming out in October. You're going to get information on that. And so we just want to be uh better connected to you and let you know everything that we have going on this year. We are going to be hitting the West Coast. You know uh there are so many cities uh that have chimed in like pull up here, pull up there.

A few cities in the Midwest too.

Absolutely. Yeah.

And and I think we should say this to you like you know I want people to understand like like touring touring for Tim and I is is more about impact, right? It's it's about impact. You know, I I you know, people try to come up with their own narratives and all this foolishness or whatever the case may be. Um I I want to I want to just say like touring for Tim and I's impact like

yeah, we in a studio. We New York, you know, it's my home city. I love coming to New York. I love being in the studio with Tim. But truth be told, we like being in the room. Absolutely. Be honest with you. We like being in the room with our street team. Um these episodes are more enjoyable to us when we're in the room with people we love. Uh we love opportunities to just pray for people and to lay hands.

Yeah, man.

And to meet people after episodes, uh hug, listen to stories. Um I'm a people person. Uh Tim is a a people person. So for us, it's it's more about impact and more about being in the room with the people we love. So I just I think I just need to put that out there. You know what I'm saying? It's very very

that's just our heart behind it. You know, we feel like

for street preachers, we want to be in the street. We want to be with with God's people, man.

Yeah. We want to be with the people. And

yeah,

be intentional about that time where we are spending with you. And so those nights, if you went and watched the behind the scenes or maybe you saw one of the episodes from last season, those nights are not just two guys sitting on seats with a mic in front of us. Those nights are impactful. Really encounters. Yeah. Really encounters revival kind of nights and the spirit of God flows

and uh anything can happen on a street. the preachers tour stop.

Yeah. Those those nights was really encounters uh for me. Obviously, it was first time first time I was doing something like at least for me, first time being on tour.

But I I felt like you the tour was difficult behind the scenes because, you know, we leaving family,

we have to come home and preach on Sundays,

you know, we was gone for like two months and it it was, you know, it was it took a lot of work behind the scenes, but from city to city and from venue to venue, I could feel God's presence, right? It was it was like it was like an encounter. Every city we went to was like it was an encounter. Tears being shed, breakthroughs, testimonies of healing.

Yeah.

Uh supernatural movements of God. It was literally like God was just invading every single uh tour stop with his power and with his presence and it's like we was we was getting a chance to see our family in real time.

Yeah. It's it's one thing to be in comments and read. Shout out to everybody who comments too. Like we really appreciate that when y'all comment and we get to read what God is doing in your lives. Uh Tim and I really enjoy that. And um and uh it's it's one thing to read comments of what what what how God is moving in people's lives. It's another thing to be out on the road and and see the faces and put faces to words and look people in their eyes and to hug them. And

man, those nights out there in tour was like it was an encounter. It was powerful. So you know, Tim and I are definitely looking forward to our tour this year through the Midwest and West Coast. Um we're looking forward to that and being in those rooms and all the information is on our website. Absolutely. Street Prepreachers.tv. Yeah. And uh you can find everything there, information, you can find apparel, uh you can be kept up to date through the newsletter. And so we're just grateful, man. You know, the last tour um was so impactful.

It was impactful,

encouraging. Yeah.

And um you know, we kind of reflect over

uh what God did through the BTS episodes and and then we took a break which was necessary. And

it's called it's called rest. rest is holy.

You know, people tried to say, you know, there must be something going on between them. Must be beef between them. Only beef between us is fillet mnet. You know what I'm saying? They don't they don't know like off the camera. This is real relationship. This is real brotherhood. This isn't

It's crazy how people just be creating narratives, right,

man? AI they got us out here on AI videos just, you know, fighting in the streets, all type of stuff, man. It's just wild, bro. Yo, it's crazy because with the rise of AI, yo, I seen I seen uh somebody try to somebody had an AI video of me promoting their church saying like, "Yeah, this is my mentee." And it's my voice too, bro. Like a joke was scary. It was It was my voice. And they took a video of me sitting on the couch, my voice promoting some person I never met saying, "Come to this person's church. This is a mentee of Philip Anti Mitchell. Crazy." And we had to get out. We yo, we had to get out that dude.

Absolutely.

Yo, we had to get like, "Yo, bro." And but it's crazy because people are doing that. And let me let me just say this since we are talking about AI, right? Tim and I are not condemning AI. AI is not going nowhere. Um it it will change industries.

It will it will shut down whole industries. It will it will it will affect jobs.

I even believe that AI, don't quote me on this,

but I think AI shows up in the book of Revelation. Yeah. I'm going to say why. Because in the book of revelation there is a prophecy in the end. There is a the scriptures the scriptures have a prophecy about a man who is going to come to power very soon in the world. He is called in the scriptures the antichrist.

Mhm.

Right. The scripture tells us we can feel his spirit in earth. And according to the book of revelation he will be a political leader. He's going to emerge on the world stage and through him he will control the world economically. He would control the world spiritually. One world religion, one world government. We probably will not see paper cash.

That's why everything is moving towards electronic. Everything is moving towards tap. Just just pay attention. We probably will not see paper cash. It be one world currency, one world government, one world order. And according to the scriptures, he's going to emerge on the scenes and he will be the leader of the world for a seven-year period. What the scripture calls seven-year tribulations. He will lead the world. And um during that time, the scripture prophesies he will set up an idol in the temple that will be rebuilt in Jerusalem. And the idol will talk

and the idol will speak and it will blaspheme God and it would it will speak to the whole world and cause the whole world to worship the antichrist and his false prophets. So now we read in that in scriptures, but in context, what is a talking idol in context?

Yeah.

Right. What are we talking about? Maybe a hologram. We're talking about AI technology, a an assistant AI technology that will speak all day to to prop up that antichrist and to blaspheme God. So when I read things like that, when I first read that 20 years ago, I was like, well, how is that going to happen? The technology didn't exist for something like that 20, 30 years ago. But now,

yeah,

with AI, the fact that that there's AI videos of me talking,

follow this. There's AI videos of me sitting on a couch talking saying somebody's my mentee who I've never met promoting his church with my voice. It's crazy. There's an AI video of me preaching to somebody's platform I've never even met. I'm standing behind this pastor's podium and I never even met this particular pastor. So AI is doing that with my voice and with my likeness. So when you read the scriptures about this this talking like this figure whatever it is, right? The scripture talking about this talking figure blaspheming God and exalting a person Antichrist. What is that?

Yeah.

Right. If you have a better idea, throw it in the comments. We love to read what it is. I believe that's going to be AI technology that the Antichrist will use AI technology to set up that hologram in Jerusalem and it will it will proclaim him and blaspheme the name of God.

That's crazy. And so there is a lot of things happening right now in the world from the rise of AI to things we've seen in world governments that just is is screaming at the body of Christ that we're in the fourth quarter

and that we're getting closer to the end.

And so that's why we see societies trying to move towards paperless societies. We see the rise in everything being electronic.

Um they're talking about a 10 uh a 10 nation confederacy right now in Europe. They're having those conversation. The scripture does talk about the antichrist leading a a 10 a 10 nation confederacy. Like so all the things that's happening right now in the news, we we we see we see the unfolding of things in the news globally.

Absolutely.

These are the seeds of things in biblical prophecy that are screaming to the world, we are near the end.

Yeah.

Right. And we we read these things in scripture, but we see them unfolding right now in society. we see all of the pieces coming together and um and and so anyway, I don't want to I want to belabor the point.

Nah, but but I think it's important, you know, because I I think AI can be used as a tool, but we want to encourage you use your AI. What is your AI actual intelligence? You know what I'm saying? Don't don't rely on artificial intelligence more than you depend on your actual intelligence. And if you can do that, I'm telling you, it can work as a benefit to help you.

Oh, I was I was I didn't mean to cut you off, bro. I was think I was seeing in my mind trying to think why are we talking about AI on our podcast and you were saying people was putting out AI videos saying that you and I was fighting each other when we took a break, right? So So now we need to say to the street team like ain't no beef on the couch, right? This is real relationship. You know why we took a pause? A pause is called rest.

Rest is holy.

Yep.

Rest is godly. And God created everything in six days. And on the seventh day, he rested. God did not rest because he was tired. God rested to teach us a lesson. He rested to give us a model that we need to know how to work and rest.

And that is godly. Yo, having hustle to the point where you kill yourself is not godly.

No.

Right. Rest is godly. That's why vacations matter.

Yes.

Pulling away matter. Yes.

And if you got push back on this, then just follow the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. It said he himself would slip away often to be alone with God. We see Jesus preaching and slipping away, teaching, slipping away, feeding, slipping away. I've said this before, doing ministry in the thousands. He had a crowd of thousands doing doing conference style ministry and then slipping away, right?

And so Tim and I did our first season. We went on tour, we traveled, did all the things. We had to take some rest. And uh and here we are.

Rested, ready to go. season two and it's a beautiful journey. I mean this this season, these episodes that we have released have been my favorite so far because of of the text and the time that we live in and how important these kingdom conversations are uh to be infused in the culture and society just like AI you know we live in a AI generation and every generation has its own uh mechanism that provides industries you know there was the industrial era there was the technologyology era, the dot era. Now we live in this

and AI AI will create new industries and like I said before, it will it will dismantle other industries, but it's not going anywhere. And and again, I think we will we I think AI technology I could see how that unfolds in biblical context. But AI is here. It's not going nowhere. Um let me let me can I just say let me let me put this out there real quick too because like our attorneys is constantly dealing with fake pages, AI pages, and all the things. Listen, I have one page on Facebook and one only, right? I have one page on Tik Tok and one only. I have one page on Instagram and one only. And I have one page on X Mone only. And so I don't have 25 pages on all these different platforms. I am not asking you for money in your DMs. I'm not I'm not prophesying to you. It's crazy. Like we be getting emails from people saying, "Pastor Phil prophesied to me and saying this.

You need somebody. me say like listen man I don't do that kind of stuff. I need y'all to hear me. I'm not that kind of dude. I'm not I'm not selling holy water and prophets lying and that's not me. I'm not that kind of dude. So if you got some DM from me saying pastor Phillip, you know, prophesied to me and told me to meet him in this city at this time and that's not me. Okay? I don't engage in DMs like that. I don't ask people for money. I barely take up offerings at my own church. So if somebody saying I'm in your DMs asking you for money, that's not true. That's not me. Okay. So, I don't get down like that. So, I'm not in nobody's DMs begging them for capital and giving out false prophecies and selling holy water. That's that's just not I'm not that I'm not that dude. I need to just get that straight because we do see a lot of people that's being taken advantage of by that stuff. And they, you know, and they they sent us emails saying, you know, PAM said this and no, I have not.

Right. So, anyway.

Yeah, man.

Um, so yeah, we're not I know there's AI videos of Tim and I beef. No, ain't no beef. We took a rest

and um and we here now. Absolutely.

We in First Peter.

First Peter. And what what verse we in for this?

Yeah, we in First Peter. A letter that was written to a church under persecution in the first century. And Tim and I want to keep repeating that in the culture we living in. We see hostility against Christianity. It's increasing around the world, around the globe. In fact, uh more Christians are being put to death now than even in the first century. In the last century, we've lost more brothers and sisters.

And there is an intolerance for Christ and an intolerance for the people of God that is increasing. And Peter's writing a letter to people that's feeling that pressure. They're feeling that heat. And he's trying to encourage them not with empty platitudes or with materialism. He's trying to encourage them with things that are eternal and things that cannot be taken from us. And uh in our study together, man, we're right here at verse 10, right? And so he starts his encouragement in verse three. That encouragement, we read that all the way we came to verse 9. And then he comes to verse 10. He says, "Concerning this salvation." What salvation? Right? Concerning this salvation, there is only one salvation, right? The word this is very important. There is no multiple salvations.

Yeah.

There's no multiple roads to God. Right? If there's multiple roads to God, then Jesus was a liar.

Yep.

Say it again.

Right. If there are multiple roads to God, then Jesus was a liar. And I know there's a lot of influential people say there's multiple roads of God and they mean well, but they're mistaken. Mhm.

And there's a lot of other religions say there's multiple roles of God and they mean well, but they are mistaken. And you could be strong and wrong at the same time.

And there are a lot of false religions that are strong and wrong. And there are a lot of people have influence who are strong and wrong. Right? Somebody's lying. Either Jesus was lying or your favorite influencer is lying. Right? Who's credible? Now, this this is where I stand, right? Jesus when he was alive cuz cuz Peter says this salvation. You know what this is? This is exclusive.

It is narrow. That means there's not multiple roles. So, let me just put it like this. When the Lord was alive in the earth, he said something that was very exclusive and very narrow. He said, "I am, watch the word, the way." Singular.

Yeah.

The truth singular. And the life singular.

No one comes to the father, God, but through me. Now, Jesus made a statement that was very controvert. Philip Anthony Mitchell did not make this statement. Timothy Timberlake. Dang. I put your whole government here. Tim Timberlake did not make this because you know I call you Timothy off mic like what's good Timothy? Whole government social security number. Right.

Tim Timberlake did not say that. So pause right before you send us any hate speech. Jesus said I am the singular way. I am the way, the truth. No multiple truths.

The life. No one comes to the father that's God but through me. So now we got to make a decision. Either Jesus was credible or he was a liar. If Jesus was credible, there is only one God and one pathway to God.

If Jesus is not credible, there are multiple pathways to God. Now, how do we know if Jesus was credible?

He is not the found he's not the only founder of a major religion.

There are other founders of major religions that people are practicing all around the world. However, no no one in history, there is no documented evidence in history of anyone ever coming back from the grave who was a founder of a religion but one.

Jesus was seen alive.

Yes.

By over 500 eyewitnesses who wrote accurate accounts that has been preserved in history. We saw the man who was crucified and buried. We saw him alive. We touched his hands. We ate food with him. He talked to us for 40 days. And based on that, we wrote down accurate accounts of his life after death. Watch. And they went on, some of those men, to give their lives for what they saw. Very rarely can you find a man to die for the truth, let alone die for a lie.

And those apostles, with the exception of John, gave their lives as martyrs for what they saw. Peter was crucified upside down. James was thrown off the temple and his head bashed him with a club.

Another man was flayed. That means they skinned him alive then killed him. One was thrust through with spears. All those apostles died for what they saw. What did they see? A resurrected Christ.

So you got to choose either what your favorite influencer says or what Jesus says. Somebody got to be credible. Everybody's not credible, right? All right, Phil, let me let me let me insert this because often times people believe that you're talking from one position that they don't know this because we ain't never talked about this on the podcast.

Yeah.

But at one point in your life, you practice another world.

I did practice another religion.

So you you're talking Yeah.

from the posture and the position not of what you think.

Yeah.

But of what you know because of revelation.

So you're right. So we've never talked about this on the podcast. When I graduated college, uh, I went to North Carolina Central University. Shout out to all the H.B.CU.I graduated college two months after 9/11. And, uh, and I I was brought into, um, another religion.

And I was in the other religion for a little while, you know, and I did all the things. I stopped eating pork, you know, praying five times a day. I was doing all the things.

And after a while, I just felt empty. M I just felt like I'm doing all of these things, but it's like it's like synapsis, right? It's like something wasn't connecting. And I'm like I'm I'm praying, but I I don't I'm not I just felt empty. I felt like something was missing.

And um and I remember after a while, I just had questions that were unanswered, and I had frustrations. And uh and so, yes, I'm not speaking as a man that has only been a Christian. I'm speaking as a man that also practice another religion. And I knew the emptiness of that religion. I know what it is to now to be in Christ and be alive

because the Holy Spirit is alive on the inside of me.

Yeah.

Right. The Holy Spirit is alive on the inside of me.

You know what I'm saying? And um

I'm I'mma go I'm going to go further than that. Right now as I'm talking right now as Tim and I talking, one of my best friends in life is sitting in the studio,

right? A dude I've been in the street Iran the street with since I was 12, right? And we was in them streets hard. He from New York. I'm from New York. He here. You know what I'm saying? Uh he's one of the founders of Investfest, my man. Uh I know him as Matthew Garland. Y'all know him as MG the mortgage man, right? One of the most uh influential mortgage loan bankers in the country, right? He's one of the founders of Investfest. He's in the studio right now. We've been in the street,

you know, since we was 12 years old. He seen my whole life. You know what I'm saying? We've been rocking for three decades, right?

But he he also saw when my life made a change. When my wife made a pivot, he saw when something changed in my life. It was evident. We would have conversations about this. Something happened to me

that he saw,

right? It wasn't just rhetoric. He saw

something happened to me. He saw my life changed. I mean, he's sitting in the room right now. He He saw something physically with something happened to my man DAP, right? That's what he used to call me, DAP. Something happened to him.

You know, you know, you know what happened to me? I got filled with the spirit. You know what that happened? when I gave my life to Christ, when I was suicidal in a bathroom over a toilet seat and I met the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords who who who unzipped me, zipped me up with the Holy Spirit and transformed my entire life. That other religion I was in did not do that.

You know why that didn't happen to other religion? Because the spirit of God has attached himself to only one world religion, Christianity.

And at the center of the church is this massive light, the person of the Holy Spirit who empowers the church. So wherever the people of God are, power is there.

Yes.

And wherever the church is, power is there. Why? Because on the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit united himself to the church. So our testimony goes beyond rhetoric.

Yeah.

Right. Let me tag, man. We we the whole episode is gone. Our whole testimony goes beyond rhetoric.

It goes beyond speeches. It goes beyond proclamation.

It goes beyond songs. It goes beyond writings. Our reg our re it goes beyond that. Why? Cuz we have a book that was written through men. 40 of them by the Holy Spirit. Watch. 40 human authors.

Yes.

Writing over 1500 years.

Writing on three different continents speaking three different languages. Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic. Yet from Genesis to Revelation, there is a unity of thought.

Yes,

there are multiple people in the studio right now. And if you put us in separate rooms and gave us one topic and say everybody write about this topic for two hours and then put our our our writings together, we would not have a unity of thought. How did 40 men do that over 1500 years, three different continents, three different languages? Impossible apart from the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. So we have a book that was inspired by the spirit. We have a body of believers around the whole world that's empowered by the spirit. And so was our preaching and so was our songs. And so was our witness. And so was the men that died for what they saw. This salvation, Peter said, a resurrected savior.

Talk that talk, Phil.

A resurrected. That's why we have the faith.

This salvation, the word of God. They died for what they saw. A resurrected Jesus, right? Ain't no multiple roads to God. One.

Ain't no multiple gods.

One, right? So when Peter says I got to hop off my soap box I love soap box Phil I got to hop on my soap box. So when so when Peter says this concerning this salvation the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully. How about that Tim? Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be even he talked about the prophets who prophesied. This book I have in my hand that Tim have in my hand is the watch this. The only religious book in the world how many only only that have hundreds maybe thousands of prophecies that have come to pass. Watch this word accurately. Mnot one prophecy from the scriptures, from the Bible has ever fallen to the floor. It cannot because it was inspired by the spirit of God who if God cannot lie, then we know that this Bible can be Watch this word. Trusted,

man. You talking and

Yo, my bad, bro.

No, no, no, no.

I I'm going to hop off my soap box right now.

I'm about to I'm about to

You know what? I shouldn't even call it a soap box. This is love.

This is

proclaiming the truth. But I'm about to put gasoline on this fire,

man. Throw the gasoline on there.

So, some people they they only see who you are now, right? But they have no idea who Jesus kept you from becoming,

right? Think about that street team. Everybody, they see who you are now, but they have no idea who Jesus kept you from becoming. Just for a second, Phil, just think about and talk about who you would have become

separate from Jesus. I was uh I was 12 years old when I started selling crack cocaine. I was 13 when I started, you know, having sex with women and ruining their lives. I was 17 when I first robbed somebody at gunpoint. Um, I spent my 18th birthday uh in a prison cell in Riker's Island right here in the city of New York. Um, this dude, uh, MG and I, we ended up, you know, in in another state in, North Carolina, in your state.

Yeah. pushing weight,

you know, pushing weight and and all kind of shootouts in the streets and the clubs and um blanketing campuses with, you know, with all type of drugs and you know, and and I just think like if I would have continued down that path, you know, and you know, my man MG is here, he could testify. We got friends that's not here.

Yeah.

I mean, he's a businessman today. You know what I'm saying? I'm a minister and, you know, I have businesses and um I I could probably say I either do be doing a long-term bid somewhere or I'll be in a box,

you know, or I'll be in a box. And and truth be told, people never you never talked about this in the podcast,

but people don't know your story. They could say the same thing about you. You know what I'm saying? You you took a bullet to the side,

right? You took a bullet to the side. You was pushing weight in the streets of North Carolina. I mean, you had Christian parents, but you were crazy.

Yeah. And I think a lot of people don't know that part of your story.

You know what I'm saying? I know I would probably be doing a long-term bid. I'll be in a box.

But tell them your story and where you think you would be if it wasn't for this salvation that Peter's talking about.

Yeah. I I I could not envision my life beyond 21. Like I couldn't do it.

Yeah. But why though? Tell them.

Just because of the life that I lived.

You was crazy.

I was I was a nut.

Yeah.

Just riddled by anger. Angry with God. Wouldn't do anything.

Messing with cartels.

Yeah. want to do anything.

Yeah.

To make God angry with me the way I was angry with him.

Yeah.

And um

my mom, man, I remember just breaking her heart just so many times.

Yeah.

And looking at disappointment in her face and she told me, "Either you're going to die or you are going to go away for a very long time and you have to make a decision."

Yeah.

What do you want to do?

Yeah.

And I honestly didn't know.

Yeah. And I knew what I didn't want to become. I didn't know how to achieve it.

Yeah.

I didn't know how to go about becoming someone different.

Yeah.

That it was all I knew.

And you know, I look back now at that kid and the various 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 year olds in our churches now.

Yeah. And I think that's why we preach with the passion that we preach with because it's a version of us sitting in that congregation.

Yeah.

Sitting across the screen somewhere.

Yeah.

Sitting listening to this podcast right now

that don't have hope. That don't know how in the world God would ever use someone broken like them. And I'm just telling you, if God can use us and our broken past and our dumb, absolutely dumb decisions, like neither one of us are supposed to be here right now.

Yeah.

By by all accounts, we are both supposed to be dead. We are both supposed to be locked up.

Yeah.

We're both supposed to have completely different lives. But thank God, we'll never experience that difference.

And that's because of what Peter said here in this text. this

salvation, you know, and um

you know, I I want to I want to say this, you know, you mentioned about, you know, not being able to see past 21, you know, I remember when even when like MG and I was in the streets, I don't I don't even think like when he and I was in the streets and we went to Andrew Jackson High School in Queens, you know, I didn't even think like like we didn't even talk about the future, right? We didn't even Yeah. Right. We never Yeah. But we never had a we never had a real conversation about the future. I don't even think like I don't even think we ever talked about any day but the day we was in. We was just trying to survive each day we was in. We never talked about the future. We never talked about

We never talked Yeah. We only talked about throwing parties. You know what I mean? We we always talked about throwing parties and um we never talked about the future. I remember when uh remember when Hash Brown when we found out he had actually applied for college, all of us was confused. He got accepted to college, right? He got accepted to Hampton. And I remember when MG and I graduated, well, we bar I don't even know if we really graduated high school. They shut our high school down. They just pushed us out. So, I don't I don't even know if we like on paper officially graduated.

That's crazy.

But we didn't we never took no SATs. We didn't plan for college. The point I'm trying to make is we never thought about tomorrow.

Yeah.

We had no hope beyond the day we was in. That's the way that that's the way that we live. We just he and I we just live. And the team we ran, we just live for today.

We had we had no hope beyond tomorrow. You know what I'm saying? And so, I never thought about today. I wouldn't even imagine he'd be where he is.

You know what I'm saying? Or I be where I am. You know what I mean? And um and yo and uh yo bro, I'm about to pray out. Come sit on this couch with me real quick, bro. Yeah, I'm dead serious. Come sit over here. Yeah, just just sit right here. You know what I mean? And just cop a squat, man. You know what I mean? Improm, too. Yo. Um so, you know, it was like um we never, you know, we never thought about, you know, tomorrow anything like that be, you know what I mean? and um and uh I can't even imagine what his life would be. So, you know, but we we we survived. We made it out of we made it out. And um and so I just I just want to say, you know, I just want to say to somebody watching right now, you know what I mean? Like um I don't know where you are.

You know, maybe maybe there's somebody watching, somebody listening right now. Maybe you lost hope. Maybe maybe there's a parent right now watching. And you have a teenager that was like us, just just like Tim, you know, like us three. Maybe you have a teenager who's just crazy and in the street just wild. Maybe you have a teenager that's just just out there.

And and I want to say they don't give up on them.

Yeah.

You know what I mean? Don't don't give up on them. Don't let them go. You know what I mean? Um belief, right? Belief. And um I'm talking to I'm talking to two categories of people right now. I'm talking to people who are not thinking about tomorrow. Um, who've maybe lost hope. The trials of life has pushed you to a place where you can't see beyond tomorrow. I'm talking to you. I'm talking to people who have people in your life who you love. Maybe they can't see beyond tomorrow. Maybe a teenager is crazy. Whatever the case, but you know what we have? We have this salvation that Peter talked about. We We have a God in heaven who loves and who cares. We have a God in heaven who could transform lives, who can pull men out and all the things, right? And so, and so I just want to encourage you. Um, I want to encourage you in this salvation that we have. This salvation is a message of hope. Uh, this salvation has a future. Uh, this salvation has an eternity to put us in with God. Uh, this salvation gives us strength.

This uh salvation um that's what I want to encourage you in. And and I want to take a second right now to just speak life to you that that there is life for this salvation and and and and maybe you know somebody that needs to hear that, right? Remind them of the power in this salvation. So uh Father, in the name of Jesus, um we just thank you u for your grace that kept us alive in our ignorance.

Yeah. Lord,

we all three of us could have been dead and gone. Um, burning in eternal flames. Um, but you've kept us alive. Even when we were far away, you kept us alive. And for that, we'll be thankful. And right now, I just want to pray. Um, this salvation for somebody watching. Uh, one for the believer, they'll remember the hope that we have in our message that must go out to the whole world. And I want to pray for one who is just struggling um in hope. If life has beat them down, uh would you just encourage them right now that they'll find hope in this salvation? I want to pray for the parent that has a teenager that's out there just wild and reckless and crazy, far away, and they've shed tears over that teenager, shed tears over that child, maybe an adult child that's far away. I want to pray they will not give up hope. Um, but they would uh they would they would pray and believe and remember and not give up. I want to pray for the person, Lord, on the sound of my voice who can't see past tomorrow. They're not even thinking about the next day. Help them to know there's hope in a future in this salvation that Peter talked about. and um and and Holy Spirit, I just pray that you would do right now across the camera when I'm not smart enough to say because I don't know everybody's circumstance, but we all will find hope in this salvation. And uh and I pray that over the person watching and listening right now uh in the mighty and the majestic and the matchless name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and all God's people, man, we just say amen together.

Hey, listen. Um, if you're going to be in Atlanta, um, August, when is Investfest? Investfest?

Uh, weekend of August 7th.

Uh, weekend of August 7th.

If you're going to be in Atlanta, uh,

If you're going to be in Atlanta, uh, the weekend of August 7th, my man MG is the weekend of August 7th, my man MG is one of the founders of Investfest. It is one of the founders of Investfest. It is the world's probably largest, the world's probably largest,

it is the world's largest gathering of

it is the world's largest gathering of

It is the world's largest gathering of

It is the world's largest gathering of uh, investors, business professionals, uh, investors, business professionals, entrepreneurs. Um, if you're going to be entrepreneurs. It is educational. It's powerful. Uh Tim and I going to be there.

Absolutely.

Yeah. Tim and I are going to be there at Investfest. And so I want to give I want to take a chance to just plug Investors for if you're in Atlanta, you anywhere in the country, man. Get your tickets. Come to Invest. We didn't plan to do this, right? So I'm not getting paid to do this.

It is impromptu, right? Like Right. It is. It's crazy, right? Like

I didn't even got on Black.

Yo, this is so impromptu, right? This is not the plan, yo. It's not the plan. Um, but uh I had a chance to speak at Investfest last year. That was really dope. Tim and I will be in Investfest this year. So, if you're entrepreneur, business professional, listen, real estate, you just want to get up on game, you want to move your company forward, man. Uh, Investfest. Um, dope lineup this year. It's happening August. This weekend, August 7, investfest.com. Get your tickets. Um, you want me to do a full drop?

Yo, bro, go ahead, bro. you know, pass the mic.

So, look, Investfest, it it is the largest the largest financial literacy festival in the world.

It is.

Last year, we had 25,000 people a day. This year, we're going to probably do about 30,000 people a day. Um,

a day. A day. Let's be clear. A day. Yeah. A day. Um, investfest.com. Um, shout out to my partners, uh, Earn Your Leisure, Troy, Mike Rashard, AB. Um, so get your tickets, man. It's everything you want to learn. No matter. And I want to say this, it's not just for beginners, right? It's not just like if I'm trying to buy my first home or I'm trying to buy my first stock or something like that. This is for entrepreneurs. This is for the W2 worker. This is for just anybody who's looking to scale and grow no matter what level you're at, right? We have content for everybody. There's three stages. There's always a lot of information, education. There's not just a lot of motivation because I think when you go to conferences and things like that, there's always like motivation. People want to motivate you and inspire you. We want to give you resources so you can go out there and execute, right? And that's what Investfest is all about is exe execution, right? The information is on us. The execution is on you.

Say that again.

Right. The information is on us. The execution is on our podcast. I don't know, man.

Say that one more time. Information is on us.

Information is on us.

The execution is on you. And that's and that's that's real talk,

right? So investfest.com come network. And also I want to tell you when you go even if you go to tour um see street preachers, you go to investfest, I know you come to see the people on the stage, but you got to realize the person that's next to you is there for the same reason you're there.

Right. And I think too many times people want to do like the meet and greets, they want to do this, they want to do that, but they're not even looking to the left and the right of them. Yeah.

Right. those people are right next to you got the same mindset cuz sometimes in your inner circle you're talking about now we going we we going to extend this episode.

So now cuz now you're talking about like growing up right and we didn't think about the future

and fast forward 2026 there's still people in your circle today that are not thinking the same way you're thinking they don't have the same ambitions the same goals they don't have that that drive right so sometimes you got to go out of your inner circle to get into a new circle. Say that again.

You got to go out your inner circle to get into a new circle and build a new community and build a new community, right? Because sometimes your brothers, your sisters, your aunts, your uncles, your co-workers, they just not there yet. And that's okay,

right? Sometimes you got to leave people where they are.

Yeah.

Right. And go and walk in your own greatness and be next to people who can motivate you to a level to where it's going to help you execute. that next business partner, that next prayer partner might be right next to you. And you never know unless you open your mouth and start talking to people. So when you come to these events, whether it's investfest, whether it's street preachers tour, you have to network with the people that is next with you. You got to fellowship. That's what it's all about. And if you're not fellowshipping, you're doing yourself a tremendous disservice. Facts

at the end of the day. And that and that goes to And that goes to the power of community, right? It goes it goes to the power of community. Um, I love I love what my man MG saying is very important, right? It's even like in our in our Sunday morning gatherings. You'll come to Sunday morning gathering, but you won't have conversations with people on the road and you never know what people are going through or God might have your blessing in the person right next to you. You won't have that conversation, right? So, like what MG's talking about the power of community and I think that's very, very powerful. Yo, thank you for sharing that, bro. You know, and thank you for just impromptu invading the podcast.

I love said you ain't got to get ready.

That's right. Hey

yo, stay and and that's why and that's why the audio society a prepared messenger will always be better than a prepared message.

Come on.

Right. You know what I'm saying? And Tim and I want to be prepared messages. It's why we don't script our podcast,

right? We want to be prepared messages. And so, so boom. Investfest August

August 7th. We August

August 7th. A and then website

Investfest.com.

Investfest.com. And Tim and I will be at Investfest. So yeah, if you come to Investfest, you get a chance to to um just, you know, boom, we all chop it up. We meet each other, right, Tim?

Absolutely, man.

Yo, thank you for joining us on this episode. This I don't even know what we're going to call this

on this impromptu episode of the Street Preachers podcast with Tim Timberlake, Philip, Anthony Mitchell, and MG

the mortgage guy. Listen, if this episode was a blessing to you, do us a favor. Like, comment, talk to each other in the comments, right? You never know who you meet in the comments.

That's right. Like, comment, talk to each other in the comments, subscribe, and share. Right? If this message was a blessing to you, this episode was a blessing to you, copy, paste, text, share this with somebody that'll be a blessing to you. Um, we hope to see you at Investfest. Tim and I hope to see you on tour. All information is at our website, street preachers.tv tv. Yes, sir. Uh, we love you, street team. Can't wait to see you in our next episode. Yo, go in. Peace.
