What's the dark side of the Christian
content creation world?
>> Am I even laugh? I don't even know what
to say. I can say
>> I got invited to the
>> There was a what?
>> And at Burning Man. Oh, you're saved. So
now you got to go make Christian
content.
>> That is a product for deconstruction
right there.
>> When I first became a Christian, I
became friends with a bunch of people
that were doing Christian social media
to any way, shape, or extreme form or
whatever. Half of them aren't even
Christians anymore because Christianity
is becoming popular now. Christianity
has become a label, not a lifestyle.
>> That is wild. So, you're 21 or 22?
>> 21.
>> 20 21. Yo, God, protect this man. He's
too wise for his age. I'm sure you got
some single guy Christian friends.
You've been a single Christian guy.
>> My prayer when I started dating my
girlfriend was, "God, can I take your
daughter out on a date?"
>> The percentages of conversion from
street evangelism are extremely low. The
highest rate of conversion is generally
through relationships, right? So, why
would you choose literally the hardest
form of reaching people? I'm going to go
talk to strangers on the street. Why is
that for you?
>> This is the deep end with LRA.
>> All right, ladies and gentlemen. Uh, I'm
excited. I'm excited because um it's
like it's like talking to, you know, uh
somebody that inspires your your kids
and the generation underneath you. You
know what I mean? That's inspiring. It's
also inspiring and encouraging to talk
to this individual because of the risks
he takes and the the the sincere passion
he has for Jesus. I've seen him, you
know, go to festivals like Burning Man
and talk with people on the street. I've
seen him with rappers. I've seen him
with people that you just would not
expect. And he's unashamed of the
gospel. Romans 1:16, we're not ashamed
of the gospel. It's the power of God for
salvation for everyone who believes.
This guy is not ashamed of the gospel.
We love that about him. So, we wanted to
have a conversation with him. My man
Bryce Crawford is in the building, bro.
Thank you for being here, my
>> dude. Thanks for having me, man. Happy
to be here.
>> Yeah, man.
>> That was really kind. Thanks for seeing.
No, I love it, man. Like I was so I was
just telling you a little bit earlier
like it's inspiring to see you because
that's kind of how I started was just
like street evangelism and like
>> I remember watching like Ray Comfort way
of the of the master and just you know
like asking people diagnostic questions
and and getting out there and then you
get older and you think like well maybe
people just don't care about that
anymore and then people like you pop up
and you're like nah they still out here
you know what I'm and like being
unashamed. Um, and I'm I'm excited. I
want to talk about it later. We'll get
to it later cuz I want to hear about
your story. But I'm also excited because
my son um is a a a student at Campbell
and he in in in Atlanta and he loved uh
he grew up basically on Little Tony.
>> You know what I'm saying? And so, you
know, my son is a Christian. He goes to
school wearing his Christian apparel and
the whole nine. And then when he found
out Lil Tony, you know, was was on a
journey with Jesus, it was like he was
excited and and I'm excited about. So
we'll talk about that,
>> dude. Let's do it, bro. Man, he that's
awesome.
>> Yeah. Awesome.
>> So that was super dope to see. Um, but
man, I want to talk a little bit about
like like
>> cuz some people know your story, but
some people don't. So So this is a
little bit like, you know, you're you're
kind of like one of the younger voice
voices that are popping up on socials
right now, but that didn't just come
from nowhere, right? like like what
shaped you? Where did you come from to
to to knowing Jesus and being this on
fire the way you are?
>> Man, I mean, I grew up in Carterville,
Georgia. Uh maybe a little bit more
country town than most places out here.
And yeah, and uh I grew up going I went
in a Christian school, grew up going to
church on Sunday, but man, Jesus was
just really mundane to me. It was just
all this head knowledge. I knew him. He
was on my Bible quizzes and tests at
school. or Jesus was the guy that I
heard people say with their mouth that
they love. But then I would see them
>> Monday through Saturday doing wild
things downtown. So I'm just like,
>> who who really is Jesus? He's got to be
a hypocrite if that's how people are
treating him. He's got to be just a guy
on my quizzes and test. So I really
didn't care about it. We stopped going
to church
>> maybe like fifth grade, sixth grade,
unless it was like a holiday.
>> Um so so I think that's where,
>> you know, family brokenness started to
creep in. And that's when the anxiety
started to creep in, depression started
to creep in, and just had this hidden
battle for years of just like, man, like
no one knows how I feel, and I feel
ashamed. That's what the anxiety and
depression does. It makes you feel
shameful for dealing with it, you know?
And so for years, I had the anxiety and
depression up until I was 17. I thought
that the only way to make the pain to go
away was to take my life because I had
tried every vice, man. I tried the porn.
I had tried the girls. I tried the
people pleasing. I never touched drugs
or alcohol. Um, but I I just tried so
many different things and it never
worked. And so when I was 17 on
Christmas Day of 2020, I was going to
take my life. And
man, I think that was just so important
because that day was just like when you
think of Christmas like day of gift
giving, a day of celebration, a day of
joy. And I'm like, man, this is my last
day, like a day of sadness, depression,
anxiety, and I'm going to take the pain
away. And so I was just like, man, if
I'm going to go out, like, I'm going to
just enjoy one last meal. So, my
favorite spot is Waffle House, bro.
>> Wait a minute. Time out, bro. Time out.
It's a serious moment, but
>> I mean, I don't think you can be serious
about that because it's just
>> the last meal was going to be Waffle
House, bro.
>> Bro, you already know the Allstar
special, man. That thing is holy.
>> That's my thing.
>> Come on. You know, you know, so like,
dude, the all-star special. I mean, you
get the double hash browns, eggs,
scrambled with cheese, white bread,
bacon. Uh, I like the mixed jelly. They
got so many mixed jelly looking good.
Chocolate chip waffle and uh, man, that
place is holy.
>> Yo, that's crazy. My man's like, "Oh, I
got my chocolate chip waffle planned out
for my last meal."
>> Come on. My death row meal is Waffle
House. And you know, Waffle House is
great because
>> uh, they can like open sneeze on your
food and you're okay with it. You know,
like there's some something going on
past 11:00 over there.
>> Like, yeah, it's supposed to happen.
>> But you like that, you know? Dude, I've
seen some crazy stuff at Waffle House,
bro. But um
>> yeah, so that night I go and and you
know too, I mean Waffle House doesn't
close.
>> If it closes, it's like the end of the
world's going down. So they're open,
only thing open. It's packed in there.
And I couldn't get a seat cuz everyone's
in there with their family or whatever.
And so I just kind of reach over to this
guy that was in there that looked like
he was alone. And I said, "Hey, um do
you want to eat with me? I'll get your
meal. We'll just get to sit down
faster." He's like, "Yeah, sure." So we
sit down. He's about double my age,
maybe mid30s at the time. And then he
all of a sudden just starts dumping his
life issues on me. Like doesn't mention
anything about Jesus, but it's just like
my last Christmas with my kids. My
wife's divorcing me. Like she's taking
the kids away. No one's talking to me
today. Like it's his worst day, too.
>> But he's dumping all his life issues on
me. And all I can think about is you
have no idea what I'm about to do when I
leave here.
>> Mhm.
>> I came there to escape my me to escape
my problems one last time. And now I've
just got somebody else's problems on me.
M.
>> And so I'm just kind of sitting there
slamming that Allstar special, like just
kind of like trying to get over it,
trying to get out. And then he just I
the only thing I really remember him
saying was he was just like, "Man, I
love my wife, but she doesn't feel the
same about me."
>> And then he said, "There's no growth in
a relationship if the love isn't
mutual." And
>> wow,
>> when he said that, it all the time
stopped. And for for the first time in
my life, the 18 in between my head and
my heart finally connected. all the head
knowledge I had from church, going to
Christian school, all this stuff, Bible
verses coming in my brain and in my
heart, God speaking to me, revealing his
love to me. On this moment, he didn't
say anything about Jesus, but God uses
words.
>> And then I just had this immediate
thought of like maybe I don't know that
God loves me because I haven't given
myself a chance to love him back. You
know, like a lot of times like some of
the best friends I I I have now like at
first like I almost didn't want to give
them the time a day. You know, I was
kind of like, you know, who you know, we
don't know each other. But the more and
more I spent time with them, I realized,
oh man, I really love who you are. I
love your values. Like, I want you to be
involved in my life. And so, for that
split second, I thought, well, maybe I
don't think God loves me because I
haven't attempted to love God back and
start friendship. And so,
>> I threw money on the table and just ran
out crying
>> because it was the first time in years
I'd felt the peace I was looking for in
my depression and anxiety was in that
moment. And
>> so I just go into my car and I said,
"All right, Jesus, if you're really
real, take away my anxiety and
depression cuz this is the reason that I
want to take my life."
>> Wow.
>> And
I haven't had the crippling anxiety or
depression for years. I had my first
anxiety attack since that day like two
weeks ago.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. But Jesus really took away my
problem and
>> I just didn't It wasn't my story
anymore. Jesus was my story, you know.
>> Yeah, man. I one I appreciate you being
that transparent and and talking about
it like especially like at your age to
just be like yo I'm this is it like I'm
anxiety depression like I I battled the
same things from 15 on you know what I
mean so I think it's it's something with
like
>> I don't know like it's like guys like oh
you're going to depend on me you know
what I mean I'm not just going to let
you live out here and be like you got it
together like no you're going to have to
continue to depend on me for that you
know
>> consistency what when I listen to you
even now as you as you're telling your
story like you're a gifted communicator
like a gifted storyteller. You're gifted
at talking to people like you know it's
like man you you just seem comfortable.
Is there did you grow up listening to
somebody preach and teach or communicate
or is this like how did you how did this
develop? I've always loved to write. I I
took a lot of writing classes in high
school just because I love phrasing
things. Like I love getting the
opportunity to package things in such a
unique way and and still give it power
and emphasis. Um but man there's so many
preachers I love, man. I mean like when
I turned 17 and I became a Christian, I
was I was listening to anybody and
everybody, you know, but man, I love
Francis Chan. Y'all's episode blessed me
a ton. I love Francis, you know. We love
Pastor Philip Anthony. We love Pastor
Phillip. We love um David Platt. I love
all those guys, you know. Like so, you
know, I love
>> You like You like the heavyweights.
>> I love Oh, bro. I I like getting slapped
when I'm when I'm listening to a sermon,
you know? I like getting rebuked every
five minutes. So So that that that's
that's how I like it. But
>> but yeah, I mean I I just love
>> I I don't know. And and you know, isn't
it so much easier to just brag about
someone else?
>> Like your job is to brag about someone
else in your music. My job is to brag
about someone else and what he's done in
my life. So like I feel like that that's
where another aspect of comfortability
comes from is just I'm not
>> having to worry about performing right
now. I'm just talking about what God's
done in my life.
>> That's really good. That's powerful,
bro. I I'm like, it's funny to me
because there's a lot of Christians
like,
you know, who would definitely,
you know, be willing to sit down with
Adam 22 and just like,
you know, have these conversations. At
21 years old, I'm I'm just seeing the
spaces and places that you navigate and
like, you know, the way you move and I
guess,
you know, like like I was saying, you
had a little Tony on there like you're
you're talking to people who folks would
be like,
>> "What's going on here? What's going on?"
Yeah.
>> And I'm curious for you,
>> what makes you want to invite them? What
is what what's that about?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's that story
in Matthew 9 when Jesus is sitting at
the table with the tax collectors, the
prostitutes, the sinners, and then the
religious people show up and he goes,
"What is a guy like that doing with
people like that?"
>> That's their response. And but my
favorite thing about that story that I
love is Jesus isn't looking for the back
door trying to sneak out when the
Pharisees show up. He's like, "Oh,
shoot." Like, "They're here. I got to
get out." He doesn't do that.
>> Rather, he's like, "Hey, it's the sick
that need a doctor, not the healthy."
Mhm.
>> And so I think we we sometimes as
Christians can get in this like in this
weird funk where like now that we've
been saved, we kind of have this like
mentality. I don't know that was that
was definitely me at first. Like when I
first became a Christian, I'm just
expecting all my friends just to be all
in because I went all in. And then I
realized, man, everybody takes a little
bit of different time and things like
that. And then some people's story is
different. And so there are people at
the end of the day, Adam 22 is of the
same value as me. The same way the
homeless man has the same value as Bill
Gates. It's not the amount of money in
their bank account that makes one more
valuable than the other. It's just who
they are. And they're made in the image
of God. Yeah. That's the price God puts
on their life as his own life. And so
when I look at someone like Adam 22, I
look at him, yeah, sure, maybe he's
doing his thing, but like before I was a
Christian, man, I was enslaved to
pornography. I was enslaved to the very
thing that he that he's actively doing
right now. And so that gives me a heart
where it's like, okay, a thing that you
think is perfectly fine in society. I've
had the opposite end of it where it's
like, man, it hurt me.
>> And so like, let's talk about it. And
what a lot of people don't even know
about Adam is like, man, so many
Christians were bashing Adam. And then
like after we got done, we gave him like
off camera, I we gave him a a Bible. I
said, "Hey, bro. You want a Bible?" He's
like, "Yeah, man." Like, "Dude, I don't
even own a Bible. Like I've always
wanted a Bible. No one's ever He's like
giving and I'm thinking like we got so
many Christians slamming Adam 22
>> Mhm.
>> when he doesn't even have a Bible like
we're slamming him more than we are
praying for him. And a lot of times like
you know even Adam like he needs love.
Lil Tony man turning to Jesus like
needing some love. Everybody's needing
love. And so
>> man I just people I love people man. You
know what's funny is
growth and maturity. A lot of times
people think it's about time, right?
They say like, "Oh,
>> time will mature you." And for sure time
can mature people. But sometimes, man,
there's like a supernatural maturity
that God allows to happen in people,
especially when their hands are on the
plow, like when they're in it. And it's
funny like my buddy Trip Lee and you are
y'all remind me of each other because
like we found him at 16, you know what I
mean? And he just took off like a
lightning bolt. He was hungry for the
word, hungry for truth. And by like 21
this was like dang, like he would say
some profound things. And I'm listening
to you and I'm like you're barely out
your teens, bro. But you but you have a
lot of wisdom. And I I think the wisdom
is not knowledge cuz knowledge is just
knowing things. But you have wisdom and
it's because you're you're you're
activating the things you're learning.
>> You know what I mean? And that's what's
making it like this this man is like
>> wise beyond his years, but not just
because he learned some things, but it's
because he's learning and applying and
getting actual experience. It's super
encouraging just to hear you you talk
about it because
generally a 21 22 year old is very
zealous and thinking like it's me
against them you know us against the
world and you're like no it's us for the
world like Jesus died for the world so
I'm here for them and that's crazy like
it's a unique whatever you got keep that
bro
>> thanks for the encouragement
>> keep that bro I'm like it's funny just
to just to hear it like do you feel like
amongst your peers, do you feel like
a leader amongst them or do you feel
like there's other people who are like,
"Yeah, you got it. We're we're we got
this. We're in this together." Like, how
are you feeling like as a part of your
generation as you're navigating all
this?
>> I feel the same as everybody else. Okay.
I don't I don't I don't I don't feel any
any more like I don't feel more special
or more
>> anything different. And I just I mean
everything that we're doing now I was
doing the moment I got saved.
>> Like when I turned 17 I would run up to
people and say Jesus loves you and then
run before they could respond because I
didn't know the answer to their
questions. Like you know I I'm this is
all just something I just love talking
to people. I love sharing Jesus. And
people got different gifts. You know
some people are good at shephering
people and leading people. Some people
are preachers. Some people are teachers.
Some people are pastors. Some people are
prophet. You know
>> man you guys operate in your gifts. I
want to work together. I mean that
that's the that's the goal is to work
together. And so basically I'm just like
Bryce is going to operate in the gift
that God's given him and hopefully
that'll compliment everybody else that's
running hard so that we can just reap
souls for the kingdom.
>> Bro, one day you're going to be older.
Like you're going to be at like my big
old age. It's funny cuz I now I'm
feeling old lowkey. This is why I'm
feeling old. I'm going tell you why.
Because I'm proud. I'm like sitting here
like man I like this guy man. I'm proud
of him. Good stuff. And I'm like, "Oh,
this is how older people used to feel
about me." You know what I'm saying?
Like, I've gotten to that place where
I'm listening to you. I'm like,
>> "Oh, man. So, I'm so proud of you, bro,
like it's so crazy, man." But no, that's
dope, man. Um, I want to know I I want
to show you something. I want to know,
have you seen this? Cuz like this is a
this is Gen Z is an interesting
generation. I'm still trying to uh, you
know, understand the world that Jenz
lives in. But I want to know, is this
something that you've seen or
experienced out here in this world? I'm
going to show you this clip.
>> All right, cool.
>> Check this out.
[Music]
>> So,
>> I didn't know how to cut it off right
there.
>> So, uh I don't know if you heard that,
the Jesus glow trend.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Okay. Okay. So, you heard of it?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. So,
>> so it's like for people who don't know,
it's basically like the trend is like
people in their old life and then they
show how wild it was and then like
they're showing the new life in Christ.
You know what I mean? And it's kind of
like the
non-Christians are critiquing it, saying
like the glow is
like performative, like you're just
trying to show off like how you're
better now or you're better than
everyone else now. And um yeah, I'm just
curious like what is your perspective on
that? You know what I'm saying? Like
>> when when I watch that video, that
encourages me.
>> I mean, you have two totally opposite
lifestyles before and after.
>> I mean, that's that's the blood of
Jesus, man. That's what Jesus does in
someone's life. I think I think there's
this tendency to not like First
Corinthians says, "Love hopes the best
in people." Love believes the best in
people. And there's this tendency to
just not believe the best in people. Oh,
that's fake. Oh, that's this. where
that's at. But even Paul says whether
the gospel is being preached in vain or
the gospel is being preached in truth.
Praise God that the gospel is being
preached. And so, you know, are there
people out there that probably do the
trend, not for the sake of their heart?
>> Sure. Are there people that are doing
there because God's done a heart change
and they want to show this is my God.
This is how powerful my God is.
Absolutely. Either way,
>> it's still bringing people to know, man,
there's a God out there that can do
radical change. And that that's what
encourages me.
>> All right. So, when I'm on top of my
hydration, you know what I notice? I
noticed that everything's working
better. My mood, my energy, my focus, my
skin.
Just getting fluids every day is not
always easy. So, that's why I've been
loving Drip Drop. I'm serious. I use it.
This is not just me saying something.
All right. What Drip Drop is is a doctor
developed, proven fast hydration. And
what it does is it uses a precise ratio
of sodium electrolytes and glucose for
rapid fluid absorption. What it delivers
is three times the electrolytes and half
the sugar versus all those other leading
sports drinks out there. So, I'm trying
to tell you, you feel the difference
fast. It's less fatigue. It's more
focused. It's no midday crash, which I'm
sick of. And Drip Drop is a breakthrough
hydration formula. It's backed by
science, people, which is why it's
trusted by firefighters, medical
professionals, over 90% of top pro and
college sports teams, and me. There's a
lot of electrolyte powders on the
market. I still haven't found one that
works as well or tastes as good as Drip
Drop. So, I'm just telling you I like
the watermelon flavor. Do not judge me.
It's the flavor that I like, but it's
great. I used it this morning. So, right
now, Drip Drop's offering podcast
listeners 20% off your first order. Go
to dripdrop.com. Use my promo code LCRA.
Get your 20% off. All right.
Dripdrop.com. Promo code LCRA. 20% off.
Stock up before this heat gets to you.
All right. Dripdrop.com. Use the promo
code LCRA right now. They say time waits
for no one and neither should your
payday. Keep your money in the direction
of your dreams. Get Earn. Listen, Earn
In is an app that lets you access your
pay as you earn it up to $150 a day with
a max of $750
between paydays. So, download the
Earning app and just add your info.
Then, you start accessing your pay as
you work. and leave an optional tip to
help keep the app running for everybody
else. Any money you access plus tips are
automatically repaid from your next
paycheck. I'm just trying to tell you,
sometimes you get in a jam, you know the
money's coming, you don't have it in
this exact moment, you hit earn in,
they're going to give you up to $750.
Now you can get it done and when your
check comes in, you pay them back. It's
no big deal. And you leave a tip. That's
all you got to do. That's the cost. Just
leave a tip. trying to tell you your
gas, your bills, your groceries, a
special night out with the family, that
date you want to take somebody to, that
last minute gift for a loved one, that
trip to the vet cuz the dog had that
issue, rent. I'm just trying to tell
you, all these things can be overly
expensive in the moment and you need
help. So download Earn In today. E A R N
I N. Get that in the Google Play or the
App Store right now. Now, when you
download the earning app, type in the
deep end with Larae. The Deep End with
Larae. Put that under podcast. So, when
you sign up, it's going to give a lot of
help to the people you love. The Deep
End with LCra under podcast. And Earnin
is a financial technology company. It's
not a bank. Access limits are based on
your earnings and risk factors. Standard
cash outs take one to two business days
with no mandatory fees. Expedited
transfers are available for a fee, and
tips are voluntary and don't affect the
service. It's available in select
states. Terms and restrictions apply.
Visit earnin.com for full details.
Download Earnin now. Take control of
your pay. Yeah. So, so like my
generation, man, we we grew up and like
the generation before us didn't have the
internet. They didn't know anything
about the internet. We grew up with the
internet forever. We just it's it's part
of our world, right?
>> Right.
>> There's good and bad about it for my
generation. Like the good part is we use
the internet for lots of amazing things.
The bad part is like there's porn,
there's hate crimes, there's all kinds
of crazy stuff.
>> For sure.
>> Y'all's generation has always known
social media. It's just been a thing for
y'all.
>> Yeah.
>> And on one side of it, it's like
you can do great things. Like people
watch your videos and are super
encouraged by it.
>> But then on the flip side, I guess I'm
curious. Do people critique you like,
"Yo, this is a serious moment. Why are
you filming it?" Your generation films
everything, right? Like, "Oh, this is
serious. Why would you why are you
filming this?" Like, how what what is
your thoughts on it? How do you respond?
Especially for older generation just
doesn't. It's like what what's happening
right now?
>> Yeah. I mean, I have a heart for people
that grew up in like their version of
the internet and film and stuff was all
fake. Like MTV, reality shows like I I I
understand that. Like I I get that, you
know? I think there's the other the
contrary to it where it's like, yeah,
but there's real life stuff that's going
down that's being documented for the
glory of God. And
>> like the only reason we picked up the
camera was because I felt like God gave
me a dream. I had a dream at night where
God spoke to me about what we're doing
now. And Matthew chapter 6 says, "Don't
let your right hand know what your left
hand's doing." But the back end of the
verse says, "Lest you be seen by
others."
>> So the heart posture is, man, if your
whole goal is to be seen by other
people, you already got your reward. M
>> that's that's what the verse is
contradicting and or going against. And
so it's just like man, what's the heart
posture? I think that there is this
>> there's this like, you know, undeniable,
you know, everybody's picking up the
phone, everyone's trying to, you know,
>> be a Christian influencer, everyone's
trying to do that. And there's like a
part of me that's like, you know, praise
God that Jesus is being preached. And
then there's other part of it that's
like, man, like I even I'm cautious to
post certain things. There's so many
videos that we filmed that haven't even
fil hit the internet. There's so many
people that we've interacted where I've
turned around and been like cut the
camera off you know there's so many of
that that does exist and so you know I
think it's just again like hoping the
best in people just believe in the best
in people you know
>> so so there is a thought process I mean
similarly it's like
>> I don't have to advertise my music I
could just make the songs and if you
hear them you hear them if your heart
changes your heart changes if you heard
it
>> right
>> but there's a thought process in me that
like man God called me to steward And I
know that people are looking. So I'm I'm
curious. Do you feel that sense of
stewardship like, oh man, people are
watching all
>> the all Gen Z does is have their phones,
right? So are you are you thinking about
that in your mind like people there's
somebody who needs to see this or
there's somebody who needs to hear this
or you know how does that work for you?
>> Yeah. I mean as a man that's like trying
to live in right standing with God.
Yeah. I love having like another sense
of in integrity and accountability of
like like man people listen to me so
it's like okay I I'm I'm going to make
sure like my heart's good and taking
care of my heart
>> and then but yeah I think you can't like
yes being a Christian there's that
spiritual aspect of like we believe in
God he's a supernatural being I got to
pray to God and trust in him
>> but also like Proverbs talking about
just being a man of discipline and being
practical like
>> we got to take practical action steps
like if someone says that They they want
to stop watching porn.
>> Mhm.
>> And they're going, "Okay, God, take
away, you know, take away porn from me."
I mean, there's atheists that have quit
watching porn that don't need Jesus to
quit watching porn, right? So, I'm
saying like, "Yes, lean on Jesus." And
there's just practical action steps
like, "Man, if you can't get off your
phone past midnight, like, get off your
phone midnight." You know what I mean?
So, yeah,
>> I think it's same.
>> That's good, man. I
I do Bible study with a lot of, you
know, teenagers from time to time, you
know, like my son and a group of his
friends or just my kids in in in
general. And um and one thing I've
noticed is that, you know, a lot of them
are very spiritually curious, right?
Like my generation, it was kind of like,
don't talk to me about that stuff, man.
Oh, it's like politics. Like we don't
talk about spiritual things, you know
what I mean? I mean, they shut you down
real quick. Feel like Gen Z is more
like, "Yeah, I'll go to Bible. Yeah,
what's whatever. I'll go to whatever.
I'll do whatever." They're very
spiritually curious.
>> Um, but
>> studies show they're also the most
biblically illiterate.
>> So, they're they're they'd rather not
read the Bible for themselves. They'd
rather just hear it something or just
like, I don't know, it's this or maybe
it's that. Or you see the little things
online where people are like,
>> three verses in the Bible. And they're
like, ah, I don't know. you know,
>> so I've heard you just even now sitting
here, you've spit off Bible verses,
you've spit stuff out like
>> is there what would you say has been
helpful for you as a a member of Gen Z
to be more bi biblically literate?
I think reading my Bible for myself,
man. Like I think, you know, I think uh
I I literally saw a video the other day
where this guy was going up to people at
his school that had Bible verses in
their bio and he was asking them what
does this Bible verse mean and they
couldn't even quote the one they didn't
even know it was in their Bible in their
bio on Instagram.
>> So I think you know reading the Bible
that helps me a lot you know I think
just you know
>> how do you become more literate? You
might want to read it
>> read it a little bit. Uh you know I also
I'm in Bible college right now. I I do
online college and I use like different,
you know, like like softwares and tools
and things like that. Like I would not
recommend
>> any young person out there to only get
their spiritual information from me.
Like the last thing I want someone to do
is only lean on Bryce Crawford's videos.
>> Absolutely not. The whole reason we make
the videos is, hey, go read your Bible
for yourself. Like praise God that God's
using us to help you, you know,
understand certain things. Sure. But
like, go read your Bible for yourself.
Like that's my hope and joy and dream is
just like we got so many Bible thumpers
out there, you know? It's there's some
good wisdom to be brought. But yeah, I
mean I go to Bible college.
>> I love that too, man. It's like you
taking the word of God seriously is it's
>> it it definitely is a lost art. You know
what I mean? Like that's the the era I
we, you know, in my
late teens, early 20s, like
>> we we would be grilling each other on
like what is that one? do you know this
or it was like fun for us but now I'm
like it's just like a vibe like yeah
Christianity is a vibe bro like yeah you
know and we're we're not seeing what
you're doing.
>> Yeah. I mean I think I think we need
that that that's the pro that's the pro
and con right to Christianity becoming
popular. The pro is so many people are
genuinely turning to Jesus. The con is
because Christianity is becoming popular
now Christianity's become a label and
not a lifestyle. And so now we have to
figure out okay is it is following Jesus
just saying I am going to the Bible
study or is following Jesus denying
myself picking up my cross and following
him and going allin and and that that's
what that's what we need to glean from
all the all the beautiful stuff going on
social media all the beautiful
Christians being raised up the Christian
media the the rap music the gospel every
everything just we listen to it and we
go that encourages me in my faith you
know that encourages me to walk it out.
I think that's what we need.
>> That's super dope. You're also I mean I
don't know if this is what you would
call yourself, but you're you're a
Christian influencer, right? So
influencers
I mean their life is online. They're
they're seen.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, there's certain aspects of
your life that you've shown. What where
do you draw the line between like, all
right, this is not for the world to see,
but this is like how do you navigate
that?
>> Yeah, I love having a private life. I
love living a quiet life. And I think
that's such an important thing. You
know, I have many hobbies and and things
that I enjoy that bring me rest that
people don't know about and I don't want
them to know about because I want it to
be Bryce's thing.
>> But, you know, I love
>> what Bryce
>> I just starts dumping it all on here.
>> One thing that I do love to do that
people that I'm I'm very open about, I
love to play basketball, man. I love to
get out and hoop. I love I love to fish.
I love to go to the beach. Like, all
those things are great. I I think the
matter of living a quiet life is finding
these rhythms of rest
>> where it's just like, man, is Bryce
getting good sleep? Is Bryce getting
this? Like, if you if you just look
through history, like the people that
live the longest are people that
practice Sabbath.
>> Amen.
>> Jews live the longest because they
practice Sabbath. Uh Seventh Day
Adventist practice Sabbath. They live
the longest statistically in history.
So, it makes me go like, man, so many
people are in a rush nowadays. Maybe
Bryce just needs to slow down and find
those things that like and two like I
just don't want to like my my my goal
has never been to be like the center of
attention. Like Bryce likes to have
things that are just for Bryce and just
for his friends. And so
>> I just kind of draw the line, okay,
what's ministry is ministry. If the Lord
leads me to post this or encourage
someone in this way, I will. If he
doesn't, man, I'm just going to keep it
to myself.
>> Yo, God, protect this man. Just protect
this man. He's too wise for his age.
Protect him.
>> Please Jesus, please protect me. If you
over 35 out there, like tap in. I'm
telling you, my man is Yo, I'm excited
to see what the Lord does with you, man.
I'm pray I pray for just consistency and
and um
>> I want to I want to knock on the door of
mental health a little bit because you
talked about that.
>> You know, I um I probably had my first
mental breakdown at 22, you know what I
mean? And I I went to a a mental
hospital for a few days. It was just
really really bad. And I was able to be
sustained for a long period of time
after that.
>> Mhm.
>> But the only social media out when I was
22 is Facebook, bro. It wasn't
>> Oh, snap.
>> It wasn't a big deal.
>> I don't even know how to use Facebook.
That's ancient.
>> You see what I'm saying?
>> That is ancient.
So, what I say that to say this, like
now social media is literally like I
think um statistically it it contributes
to 39% of people's mental health
deterioration.
And um I'm just curious for you like
you know dealing with
uh depression, having to deal with
anxiety, knowing that that that's
something the enemy could use to like uh
uh I mean something God could use also
to to make you dependent. Um, but yeah,
I'm just curious like there's a I guess
like a u a problem right now with
therapy, identifying therapy as a
necessity, especially with like Gen Z
and just like
>> walking through the idea of getting
help. It's more just like I just want to
talk about I want to say I have issues,
but I don't want to actually deal with
it.
>> What do you say to folks in that realm
and you know who are in that bucket?
Man, God supernaturally took away my
crippling anxiety and depression when I
was 17. I told you I shared with you a
moment ago I had my first anxiety attack
in four years about two weeks ago.
>> But like I think it would be foolish for
me to say that God doesn't give wisdom
to doctors to prescribe the right amount
of medication to help someone with their
anxiety and depression
>> and trusting God. M
>> so like sometimes trusting in God is
allowing God to use the wisdom that he's
given to doctors, given to therapists to
you know be there for there's a bunch of
you know self-help book and mumbo jumbo
out there that doesn't align with
scripture right but I mean I I went to
therapy when I was when I was 18 when I
was 19 when I was 20 like I went through
therapy and like I I praise God for that
I praise God that he gave Juliet wisdom
to help me and guide me and and be there
for me and and help me learn things
about myself and I praise God that he
can I can be dependent on him. So, you
know, I think I think it's just a matter
of
of of like perspective, right? Like, can
God to take it away? Absolutely.
>> But does he not? Sure. Why? I don't
know. Can God heal everyone? Yes. Does
he know why? I don't know.
>> I don't This is It's re It's so
refreshing talking to you, bro. Like,
I'm sorry. I'm sounding like a dad now.
You I'm in dad mode. like, "Yo, yo, this
is so dope." Um,
>> all right. When I was in school, when I
was in college,
>> um, I was part of campus ministry,
right?
>> And, um,
and you know, there were there were a
lot of women in our campus ministry,
>> a lot of young ladies,
>> not as many guys.
We were a commodity.
>> Rare rare. That's right. Come on.
>> Um, things seem to be around the same
now, you know, where it's like
>> every time I'm out and about, I hear
Christian women saying, "Do you have a
single friend? Do you know any guy
friends or young guys, single guys?" And
and they're gone. It's just like, "Ah."
Um,
but to the single guys out there, right?
Like the single guys out there who feel
entitled and they're like, "I got the
whole pond to choose from." because
you've been there. I know you're in a
relationship now if I'm not mistaken.
Okay.
>> If if any young ladies was wondering in
a relationship, but
there's a you I'm sure you got some some
single guy Christian friends. I'm sure
you've been you've been a single
Christian guy. There's an entitlement.
There's I had to tell one of my friends,
you know, you can't lead these girls on
like you know like this is not just your
pond to just oh, who do I want? I pick
this one, pick that one. What what do
you tell some of these both the guys and
the girls in in Gen Z about
relationships and navigating that that
unique space?
>> To all my young men out there that think
you can choose from, you better sit
down. You better sit down right now.
They better stop.
>> Okay,
>> bro. I My prayer when I started dating
my girlfriend was, "God, can I take your
daughter out on a date?"
>> I felt like I had to ask God permission
to take my girlfriend out on a date
>> because everyone like
>> takes women Guys tend to do this a lot.
Take girls hearts and they just start
like poking it. You know what I'm
saying? And jabbing it. And it tends to
be selfish. So like for my men out
there, be men like like lead well. Cling
to the word.
>> Cuz women tend to follow. They follow
the lead, right? Like lead well.
>> For my women out there,
>> don't settle for less.
>> There are godly men out there that do
exist. They do exist. Um you can know
them by their fruits. Vice versa, same
as men, you can know them by their
fruits. But at the end of the day, like
I've read so I don't like to give a lot
of dating advice because I'm not
married. So the books I've read that
have helped me are Ben Stewart, single,
dating, engaged, married. Anything any
Ben Stewart's got great stuff on dating
and uh Pastor Jonathan Pluda's got great
stuff on dating. Okay. But man, leaning
on men's
>> my guy right there. I love him,
>> bro. He is phenomenal.
>> That's like a friend of mine. Like I'm
going to text him after this.
>> Like I love him. He's great. So like,
you know, those guys gleaning from them.
And I I think too just learning from
married people.
>> Like if you don't even know what to do
with your dating life or your boys, you
know, if you got a guy that you like or
a girl you like, like
>> ask a married couple that you love and
trust, like get get some wisdom. Mentors
in my life have been like the greatest
gift.
>> Yeah, I can tell you you you're a deep
well and you've got people who are
pouring into that well as well. Like you
>> you know, I mean, I hate to say it
again, but it's like it reminds me of my
tribe when we were, you know, your age.
like we were just
>> we wanted to hear from older, wiser
people. We didn't think like we already
know this. We got this figured out. It
was like and you're your posture is one
of because you can't be in authority
>> unless you've been under an authority.
You know what I mean? Unless you submit
to an authority, you can't be in
authority. Like I don't I can't say I'm
the best at,
>> you know, camera work if I've never sat
under the best at camera work and learn
that. So, I think that's that's super
dope about how you, you know, you apply
that. Um,
so you're 21 or 22 21.
Um,
>> a lot of people look up to you. Um,
you know, I was in my early 20s when I
put out my first album as well, right?
So, I I I know that feeling. However,
you have way more digital influence than
I do, than I did. Way more eyeballs
looking at you.
I was able to make a lot of mistakes as
a 20some without the pressure of
everybody seeing me. How are you
navigating that? Like being a human
because you're still a broken human
being that God is has has healed, but
that flesh is still the flesh. You're
not perfect. How have you navigated your
imperfections with the world watching?
>> Try to be as honest as I can be because
I don't I I'm not perfect and I don't
want anyone to think I'm perfect.
>> Um,
mentors, pastors, leaders, leaning on
them, leaning on good friendships and
brothers. Man, the pressure is real
>> because so many people have an opinion
about Bryce. And there's a lot of people
that have a view of my life. And I've
let those views hurt me and harm me and
affect me in negative ways. But then I
had a mentor tell me, "Man, Bryce, very
few people have a voice in your life."
So many people have a view, but very few
people have a voice in your life. You
know, Jesus preached to the masses, but
then he had the 72, then the 12, then
Peter, James, and John, and then John.
there were levels of trust and like
levels of and so I think for me just
being honest clinging to Jesus like
allow you know confessing and I have a
group chat with my with my roommates
where like you know if we feel like
making a dumb decision we text in there
before we make a dumb decision we feel
like making a dumb decision we come
around each other you know I think I
think the hardest part about it has got
to be
>> you know there are people how do I how
do I phrase this I'm trying to phrase
this in in a way that like there are
people that are making the same mistakes
I am making.
>> But because there's eyeballs on me, it
almost as if Bryce makes a mistake, it's
amplified and 10 times worse than
someone else that makes the same
mistake. Now, I'm not letting that
slide, right? I'm not just saying, oh,
you know, we just act like Bryce didn't
do anything if he does something. But
it's just more of the fact of like,
>> man, just making sure I have those
people in my corner that that that
aren't impressed by by me that can be
real with me, you know? M m um let's
talk a little bit about street
evangelism.
>> Let's do it.
>> Um
first of all, there's a lot of ways to
do it wrong.
>> There's a lot of ways to do it wrong. Um
I have encountered street evangelists
that I've had to rebuke,
>> you know, and just like, "Hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, you are you're demeaning and
you're talking to this person like they
are trash." Mhm.
>> And I've, you know, encountered street
evangelists that were pleasantly
surprising to me because they were like
calm and handling the onslaught of
negativity well. Like what has been your
experience of how to navigate that? Like
not trying to argue with somebody or not
trying to, you know, getting prideful
because you're doing what people are
afraid to do. Like how have you
navigated that?
>> Yeah. I mean, a lot of people think that
like persecution is getting someone
riled up.
>> That's not persecution. You're just
starting an argument. I'm not trying to
start an argument. I don't The last
thing I want to do is egg someone on.
>> That's the last thing I want to do. So,
I you know, I think just allowing the
love of Christ to lead me. You know,
love doesn't compromise
it. It pulls the gold out of people and
calls them higher at the same time,
right? you know, and so I'm just like
allowing like, man, God, would you just
shine the love your love through me,
meet people where they're at, and and
even just like being able to see people
the way that God sees them. I think it's
the biggest thing, you know, even you
know, when because when you're out in
the street or even even if you're just a
Christian in general, it's easy to look
at people that don't believe
>> and you get this subtle pride that
enters your heart think, "Man, they're
too far gone."
>> Or like, "Oh, I might be better than
them or this, this, and that or they
need to fix that." and you just become a
micromanager of someone that's frankly
being more honest than you because
they're being honest in the fact that
they don't believe in God.
>> Mhm.
>> And you know, we need more people that
live this lifestyle of loving God and
loving people and allowing the love of
God to leave them and guiding navigating
the conversations and things like that.
Sharing the gospel. Also, listening
>> has been the greatest piece of
evangelism advice I was ever given. Like
most people when they go through stuff,
they don't remember people telling them
how to fix it. they remember the people
that were there for them.
>> And so when I'm when we were talking on
the stream, I'm just like, "Hey man,
like how are you doing? Like you good,
man? Like what's going on? Like tell me
about yourself."
>> And then you're like, "Hey, you care if
I share a little bit of my story?"
>> Sure.
>> Okay. And then I I just go in. Just
don't get I can't can't give up that
moment, right? They they trust me now.
So I don't I don't want to give up that
moment.
>> All right. So I was a young
married father of two before I had life
insurance. didn't know what it meant,
didn't understand what it was.
Unfortunately, my wife lost her father
and life insurance became a new reality
for me. I didn't realize how much
responsibility people had after losing a
loved one. I didn't realize how
important life insurance was until a
mother-in-law was greatly taken care of
after losing her husband. That's when it
got painfully obvious to me that it was
important for my loved ones, my kids and
my wife, to have that stability if
something were to ever happen to me,
especially as the primary bread winner
in my household. So, running a household
is a lot, especially if you got kids.
And having a family plan in place that
can help you wrangle the chaos is great,
but does your household have a plan for
protecting your family's financial
future? I mean, if something unexpected
happens to you, what are you going to
do? Well, if you don't have a plan,
Fabric can help. Fabric by Gerber Life
is term life insurance that you can get
done today. It's made for busy parents
just like you. It's all online. It's on
your schedule and it's right from your
couch. So, you're covered in under 10
minutes with no health exam required.
And that's important. Even if you have
life insurance through your employer, it
may not offer you enough protection for
your family and it may not follow you if
you leave your job. What Fabric has is
flexible, high quality policies that are
going to fit your family and your
budget. Like a million dollars in
coverage for less than a dollar a day.
Fabric's partnered with Gerber Life,
trusted by millions of families just
like yours for over 50 years. So what
you got to do? You got to join the
thousands of parents who trust Fabric to
help protect their family. What are you
waiting for? You need to apply today in
minutes at meetfabric.com/lrae.
policies are issued by Western Southern
Life Insurance Company. They're not
available in certain states and prices
are subject to underwriting and health
questions. All right, so you probably
are thinking like, I got lots of money
and I got lots of time to spend time in
the kitchen making delicious food at
home. No, you don't. And neither do I.
You don't have the time and you don't
want to spend a lot of money. So that's
why what you want to do is use Every
Plate. Every Plate is dope because you
get restaurant level amazing food week
after week. You get amazing recipes like
crispy buffalo ranch chicken, cheesy
Mexican street corn hash. I'm just
trying to tell you, man. I'm too busy to
cook every night. So, these meals are
quality and quantity that I need. And
I'm just trying to help you. Like, I
need the help. Listen, amazing
flavor-packed homemade meals you would
eat on a normal night after going to the
grocery store and you're cooking up
these same things over and over. No.
What are you doing, man? Up your dinner
game. 30 minutes or less. Every Plate's
clear, easy to follow recipes are what
you need in your life. Thanks to Every
Plate's constantly rotating weekly
recipes delivered right to your door.
You're always going to have the best
answer to what's for dinner. I'm trying
to tell y'all, Every Plate is where it's
at. So, what are you doing? What are you
waiting for? You going to cook tonight?
I get tired of cooking. I'm going to
cook in my house and I'm tired of it.
So, I need meals to order. You stop
spending all that money on those those
food apps that send food your house and
you spend it all that extra money. You
can get something delicious that takes
30 minutes to make. You don't have to
stress. The recipes there. So, listen.
Trust me. Dig into these meals, man. New
customers are going to enjoy this
special offer of $1.99 a meal. I'm
giving you that. I'm hooking you up. So,
go to everyplate.com/mpodcast
and then use my code larae.
Everyplate.com/mpodcast.
Use my code 1999. It's going to be
applied as a discount on your first box.
It's a limited time only. Let's do it.
Another thing is I remember me and my
buddy KB, we were having this
conversation because,
you know, both of us would go out on the
streets and we would share and the
statistic came back that like the
percentages of conversion from street
evangelism are extremely low. Like the
highest rate of conversion is generally
through relationships, right?
>> So why would you choose literally the
hardest form of reaching people? There's
so many ways to reach people. Like,
there's a million ways to do it. But
you're like, I'm going to go talk to
strangers on the street. Why is that for
you,
>> man? Because I feel like we need to meet
people where they're at.
>> I remember because of my bitterness
towards God, because I thought God was
the like the author of my suffering,
>> which wasn't true. But because I thought
that, I didn't want anything to do with
relationship with him.
>> And no one ever preached the gospel to
me. That was the craziest thing to me
looking back on my life before Jesus.
Like, no one preached the gospel to me.
>> That breaks my heart to think that like,
man, I was hurting, but maybe people
were too scared
>> or people were being passive or people
were this. And every human being is
eternal. When I walk by someone on the
street, I'm like, I don't know where
that person's going. I don't know where
they're at with God. I don't know if
they're hurting. And so I I I asked God
to send me to the darkest places, to the
most hurt people, and like let me be
that guy that you use because if I can
be that guy, it might just encourage
someone to tell their friend at 10
years, "Hey, do you want to come to
church?"
>> You know, and so we're building
relationships with these people. I'm
following up with everyone we meet in
the street. I text everyone we meet in
the street. If they go ghost, you know,
I can't control that. But that's a part
of the great commission. It says, "Go
into all the earth, preach the gospel to
all the nations, baptizing them in the
name of the father, son, and the holy
spirit." And then it says, "And teach
them everything that you know." Mhm.
Mhm.
>> And we forget that. It's like I'm going
to go out there. But man, like we can't
forget about those people.
>> Yeah.
>> We can't forget about them.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
when you're out there, I I one story I
remember specifically for me and I'm
curious what what your experience has
been on on either side. Um,
one crazy experience, negative, was I
remember being in line at a club and
just sharing with people in that line.
One guy got offended. He was upset. He
said, "No one wants to hear this." And
he spit on me.
>> Mhm.
>> And
you know, I was embarrassed and I was
like angry and I was like, "Man, what do
I do?" And I was thinking, everyone here
is watching to see if I'm gonna walk the
talk.
>> And I was like, man, I'm going just pray
for you, bro. You know, and I just
prayed for him right
>> now. In that moment, I'm like, yo, man,
this is so disrespectful. And I walked
away from that like upset and just a
little discouraged and just like, what
the heck am I doing? About three years
later, I'm at this event and a guy comes
up to me and he's like, "Yo, I just
wanted to tell you I became a Christian
in line at a club because you shared the
gospel with some guy and he spit on you
>> and I and I just didn't never I never
thought I would see you again, but
you're the guy who was doing the thing."
>> And that was super encouraging. It took
three years for me to, you know, see the
fruit. You're over like I got spit on.
>> I'm embarrassed. stop feeling. But I'm
curious for you like what has been the
areas where you felt failure but then
you also saw fruit. You know what I
mean?
>> My senior year of high school, man. I
mean I went to a private Christian
school and man I love my school. Like my
Christian school was great. The teachers
are great. The people there are
phenomenal. But man, my senior year all
my classmates probably thought I don't
know they thought of the if they thought
I was the righteous police or if they
thought I thought I was better than
them. But at a Christian school, my
senior year, I was the most disliked
dude in my high school.
>> I got food thrown at me in the student
section at the football games. No one
would talk to me. People would only talk
to me if they felt like that they had
done something super awful or wrong. And
then they come and get advice from me.
I'll never forget this happened in
finance class. And then I I gave them
advice, prayed for them, and comforted
them. And then they go to the other side
of the room and immediately started
making fun of me. They had just came to
me. And I remember sitting there
thinking, man, God, like what is going
on? I'm going to private Christian
school right now and I'm the most
unpopular dude in the high school right
now.
>> And I was just battling in my heart
going like, do I have a right to react
to these people? Like, don't don't I
just have a right? I mean, they don't
even know my heart. They don't know who
I am. They're not even asking about me.
They don't even care about me. And I
read that scripture in Acts 7 where
Steven is getting stoned by the
Sanhedrin and it he looks up to heaven
and it's the only time Jesus is
referenced standing at the right hand of
God.
>> Every other time in scripture he's
sitting at the right hand of God but
this time he's standing.
>> And I began to just kind of like ex try
to experience like what is going on here
and just imagining like what is Stephen
going through? And I can just imagine
Jesus standing off his throne clapping
for Stephen going man that's my son. I'm
proud of you. I thank you for standing
up for me. After high school, I was
getting a phone call every week, two
weeks, month from people that made fun
of me, had something to say, that were
turning to Jesus and now are like all
in. And
>> and so that was when it was like
>> that was worth it. That was worth it. I
mean, there's fruit that Billy Graham
has seown
>> seeds in. He didn't even watch him sew
the seed. Mhm.
>> He's been sewing seeds in in people in
that are being raised up in this
generation
>> that he just hasn't seen and he's
reaping the harvest and the fruit is
fall. You know what I mean? So, it's
just like I think it's just all about
playing the long game, man. Like
sometimes people make it about
themselves and I was making it about
myself in high school going, "Man, no
one's no one's coming to Jesus right now
and I'm trying my best, you know?" Like,
but now it's like,
>> man, God, I guess it doesn't matter if
it takes 10 years, 20 years, or 10
minutes. It's like I I want to be the
guy that you use to bring bring glory to
you. So
>> that's really good, man. It's it's
funny. It reminds me of a saying that I
I I keep tucked away in those types of
times is that,
>> you know, man is always counting the
fruit, the seeds in the fruit, but God
is counting the fruit in the seeds.
>> And it's our job to just listen, just
plant the seeds. Like you don't know
what's on the other side of that. just
>> we're always like, "Oh man, how many
seeds is in that thing?" And you just
don't know, but God does know
>> how many trees are going to bloom from
the seed that you planted.
>> And so, man, I would say be encouraged
in that. It's it's a rough road and I
like your your motive or at least what
you're articulating as your motive
because a lot of people man
>> it's like it's spiritual pride you know
and I see them and I'm just like yo man
no one is coming to Jesus from that like
you are
>> you are just in an argument with them
and telling them you're going to hell
and it's like who wants who feels like a
loving God who wants to run to a loving
God you know if their representative
just came down and told them, "You're
the worst thing ever." You know what I
mean? What's on the other side of that?
What's on the other side of repentance?
And is it love? You know, you often hear
the the example of uh you go into court
and it's like Jesus is your attorney and
God is the judge and then now you're
you're not guilty. And that's a cool
model except for the fact that at the
end of that there's no sense of love.
There's no sense of like the judge isn't
like coming down off the stand like come
on I love you now like you know the
lawyer's not like hey man I love you so
much like it's just it kind of I get it
but it just falls short in a way and I
think some of us just want to
>> tell people they're guilty and they need
a good lawyer.
>> Yeah.
>> Instead of like you're broken
and you're feeling unloved and you don't
know you can come to the place where it
exists. You don't know you can come to
Jesus where you can find wholeness. And
I see you
>> doing that, bro.
>> So,
>> be encouraged, man.
>> I am encouraged. Thanks for that.
>> Be encouraged. Um, I want to hit you
with a couple underwater questions.
>> Come on.
>> Cuz I just, you know, I got to got to do
it. Um, all right. Gen Z chronically
online, as I've already mentioned,
>> for sure
>> being foreign by what they watch. Um,
a lot of the shows they watch
form their perspective.
Uh, one of those that just ended was
this little show called Love Island.
[Laughter]
I want I want just your hot take.
You know what I'm saying?
>> Well, my hot take. I was affected by
Love Island. Uh, I got caught in the
swirl on TikTok like what's popular?
What's popular? Everyone's like, "Love
Island." And you know, I remember being
young watching The Bachelor and The
Bachelorette growing up, so I'm like,
"This can't be that much worse than
that, bro.
>> Bro, you want to talk about
Wow."
>> Uh yeah. And and to be honest, the first
couple episodes, like I was watching a
wash, man. I was invested. I was
watching Love Island. And then I was at
a wedding and I was talking to these two
dudes about it and I'm going, "Bro, did
you see this person? they're a
psychopath and they did this and they
did that. Someone caught a video of it
>> and they put it on the internet and I
didn't, you know, I didn't even think
anything of it. And I watched the video
and, you know, I was glad that the video
hit the internet because I saw it
>> and I saw how that show was allowing me
to gossip about people I had never met
before.
[Music]
>> That our eyes and our ears are the
windows to our soul. What we consume is
what we become. And what I had become
was a product of what the show was
producing. I was becoming a gossipfilled
>> sucker for drama
>> and that's just not who I am. And I
watched it and I was like, "Oh my gosh,
that's the last thing I want to do." And
then I started to feel the conviction of
the Lord seeping in my heart and then
just noticed how that show even though I
thought nothing was going on was was
affecting my heart. So I said, "I got to
cut that out." That was and I was just
blinded to what
>> society was feeding me and I said, "Man,
that's awful." So like just know like I
I don't say this as a shamefully of like
stop watching Love Island. I was
watching it and then I stopped. So, stop
watching it. Stop watching the show.
>> There's grace for you, too, man. There's
grace for you for your Love Island swirl
that you got caught in.
>> I got a swirl. I I get it, brother. I
get it. I totally understand,
>> man. They make TV too juicy now.
>> Oh, bro. It's like a real They put a
hook in you and you're like, "What the
heck? What am I like if you take a step
back?" Sometimes I, you know, my wife,
she'll be watching like one of the
reality series and I'm not, I don't care
about them. And then I walk in there mid
episode. I'm like, the heck is this? You
don't understand. You don't get, you
know, not enough. No, no, no. I've seen
enough.
>> Yeah. They they do you dirty with the
hooks, man. They make it look worse than
it is. Like they make it look like
they've been fighting for three days and
really they're just fighting over who
got to the coffee maker first.
>> Bro, they do it bad. So crazy.
>> I just try to stay away from reality TV
now, man. Oh, I got another one for you,
bro. I got two more underwater
questions. All right, so this one right
here. Um,
what's the dark side of the Christian
content creation world?
>> Man, the dark side of the Christian
content creation world,
>> the stuff that nobody's talking about,
baby. Like, what's the dark side?
>> I got to dig up some deep lore right
now. Uh, man, I think the dark side of
the Christian content world is
convincing people that like, oh, you're
saved, so now you got to go make
Christian content.
>> That is a product for deconstruction
right there.
>> They say, "Oh, the second you get saved,
go make Christian videos and all this
other stuff." Like when I first became a
Christian, there was a bunch of I became
friends with a bunch of people that were
doing Christian social media to any way,
shape, or extreme form or whatever. Half
of them aren't even Christians anymore.
>> And I think there's that like that dark
part to it where it's like we got so
many people that are jumping into
Christian content where they think it's
for the sake of the Lord, but really
it's just for the sake of oh no, I got
something to post on the internet or
Christianity is popular, so I'm going to
get get my two cents from the bag. And
it's like, well, not for the sake of
your soul.
>> Like, why would you
>> I don't want to I don't want to sell out
for my soul. Every day, like, if I'm
being real, every day I go, man, God,
when is the day that I can disappear
from the internet with a flip phone and
live in a town of like 32 people and no
one knows, but every day, God's not done
with what we're doing yet. So, I think
living open-handed versus saying, "Got
to become a slave to this and I got to
do this." Man, that's the wor that's the
saddest thing is because then when when
you're around the people in the ind in
the Christian content industry, like
it's an industry, but like when you're
around people that do it and you just
see the people that are hurt and they
see people that are going through it,
it's because they're not focusing on
disciplehip and they're not focusing on
um plugging into the local church, not
focused on that. They're just focused on
how many views they can get on a video.
And that just that that breaks my heart.
It hurts my heart.
>> That's crazy. Last one. I
I know all the places you've gone, all
the people you've encountered, you have
got some crazy experiences.
Like some of them, some of the people
I'm like alone are like, whoa. Like,
wow, I didn't know this person existed.
Like the one guy with the giant crystal
staff, like I was like, yo, that's wild.
>> But there the interaction is pretty
tame. But I'm curious, what's been like
one of the craziest experiences where
you're like, "Oh, shoot." Like maybe it
was maybe it was good or maybe it was
just like I don't know where to put this
in the C. Maybe it was like it felt
demonic. I'm just curious like for you.
>> Yeah. Burning Man, bro.
>> Okay.
>> There were so many videos I couldn't
even post. I was like, what is going on?
But dude, I had a guy come up to me at
Burning Man and he offered me LSD.
>> Oh wow.
>> He said, hey, bro, do you want LSD? I
said, "Absolutely not. I don't want
LSD." And then he started making fun of
me for not wanting LSD. Then his other
bro comes over there and he's like,
"What's going on?" He's like, "Bro,
we're trying to invite him to the LSD
trip. He won't do the LSD trip." "What?
You won't do the LSD trip?" I'm like,
"No, I don't want to do the LSD trip.
I'm all about Jesus." And we start
talking and and blah blah blah. And
then, you know, people are running
around naked and people are like doing
crazy stuff. I'm like, "Bro, what is
going on?" Definitely. Yeah. Definitely
burning man, man. like getting offered
LSD or like uh man so I got invited I am
I even I don't even know what to say I
could say
>> I got invited to the orgy bus
>> there was a what
>> an orgy bus at Burning Man they have
like tents rooms and buses and they'll
have like a purple bus
>> there's like multiple of them but but
like when you drive through they had
this purple bus and it was called the
orgy bus and it had blacked out windows
and they just had a whiteboard on the
side of it with the days and the times
that you can meet up there. And I got
invited and I was I was just like, man,
you are the perfect candidate for the
love of God right now. And we shared the
gospel with them. They wanted absolutely
nothing to do with the gospel right
there. But I I got invited to Wow.
Today, my mind is blown. There's an orgy
bus out there in
>> Bro, I'm 21. I'm 21 and I got I'm like,
what is go what is going on? There's so
many times where like I want to laugh
out loud when someone asks me to do
something crazy and I just got to like
hold it back. I got to be like, please
just like help me.
>> Help me for a second.
>> Yeah, I feel you though. I feel you on
that that people that they're just cuz
in their mind they're like, "What? This
is normal. Why wouldn't you want to be
Yeah.
>> Yeah. But for me I'm like I didn't even
know that existed. Like you know what
I'm saying? Like you
>> like what do you mean? This is Yeah.
It's funny. I I did a uh a a hip-hop
cipher years ago and you know this
rapper French Montana, he was like, "Yo
man, you killed that. I love that man.
We were all about to go to the strip
club. You want to roll with us?" And it
was like for him it was like, "Yeah,
it's just like I'm like I just wrapped
about the Lord." But it's but whatever.
It's clever. You know what I'm saying?
>> Um that is wild though.
>> Wild.
>> Your your story wins today. I'm I'm I'm
glad you're out here, bro.
>> Like for real. I'm glad you're out here.
And I and I want to second that. I just
reiterate, I will be praying for you
because
>> we need you. Not just now.
>> I mean, I I say that as a dad with Gen Z
and Gen Alphas, but I I'm also just like
as a believer, like we need people like
you. So, man, stay in the fight. Stay
doing what you're doing. We will be
praying for you, bro. And uh we love it,
bro.
>> I appreciate you. I'm grateful for you.
Love you, man.
>> Love, brother.
>> Let's go.
>> What's going on, everybody? It's Lra and
welcome to the workshop. The workshop is
a place where you guys can understand my
thought process. You guys are going to
be able to unpack and dig into some of
the old albums, some of the last several
albums that I've done. And on top of
that, it's a place where you're going to
hear new music and some surprises. Make
sure you stay tapped in. Let's build
together. See you on the other side.
[Music]
This is the deep end with LCRA.