
Jesus  doesn't  even  follow  the 

 
requirements  to  be  the  Messiah.  The 

 
requirements  to  be  a  Messiah  is  a  the 

 
Jews  will  go  back  to  Israel.  There'll  be 

 
a  big  war.  Something  will  happen.  He'll 

 
be  a  descendant  of  King  David.  You  You 

 
said  500  people  discovered  Christ.  What 

 
happens  to  them?  They  all  die.  Who 

 
raised  Islam  out  here?  You're  the  one 

 
who  raised  him.  Now,  if  you're  going  to 

 
jump  into  the  kitchen,  it  gets  hot.  I 

 
don't want  to  debate  with  Carl  Mark. 

 
He's  dead.  I  want  to  debate  or  talk  with 

 
you.  Okay.  So  is  Jesus.  We're  still 

 
discussing.  No,  no.  Jesus  is  alive.  He 

 
rose  from  the  dead.  That's  different 

 
from  All  right.  Then  where  is  he  now? 

 
Those  are,  by  the  way,  who  I  believe  to 

 
be  God,  which  we  claim  are  mythological 

 
characters.  I've  spent  most  of my  life 

 
reading  Buddhist  philosophy.  Um,  and  I 

 
have  absolutely  no  evidence  that  it's 

 
true.  It's  more  me  trying  to  come  to 

 
terms  with  the  concept  of  of  death.  On 

 
some  level,  I  hope  that  there  is  no 

 
afterlife  because  this  is  hard.  You 

 
know, 

 
one  pastor,  four  religions.  Watch  as 

 
Cliff  Kley  faces  a  Jew,  Muslim,  Hindu, 

 
and  Buddhist  and  manages  to  set 

 
Christianity  apart  as  the  ultimate  truth 

 
in  all  four  debates.  Make  sure  to  stick 

 
to  the  end  for  some  of  the  most 

 
thought-provoking  debates  you'll  ever 

 
witness.  Leave  your  thoughts  in  the 

 
comments  below  and  enjoy  the  video.  I 

 
know  there's  evil  in  me.  Okay,  so  the 

 
question  is,  how  am  I  made  right  with  a 

 
morally  perfect,  holy  God? 

 
You  ask  him. 

 
Do  you  say 

 
and  and  does  he  forgive  you? 

 
Yes.  How  do  you  know  that?  I  know  that 

 
because  that's  what  that's  what  the 

 
actual  Bible  says.  The  actual  Bible  says 

 
Yeah.  And  the  actual  Bible  talks  about 

 
lambs  being  sacrificed.  Right.  Right. 

 
And  we  don't  have  to  temple  anymore.  We 

 
don't  have  to  do  it.  Everyone  knows 

 
this.  Yeah.  But  what's  the  whole  point 

 
of  a  lamb  being  sacrificed?  Why  was 

 
blood  shed?  The  physical  presence  that 

 
it  was  there.  That's  that  doesn't  exist 

 
today.  That's  why  it's  so  much  that's 

 
why  back  then  people  believe  this 

 
believed  in  God  so  much  easier  than  we 

 
do  now.  Everyone  here  half  the  people 

 
here  don't  half  people  in  this  circle 

 
don't  because  it's  struggle  and  it's 

 
hard  because  it's  not  that  present  is 

 
not  there  today  and  it's  much  more  of  a 

 
struggle.  It's  not  because  somebody  not 

 
because  somebody  died.  It  doesn't  say  he 

 
doesn't  Jesus  doesn't  even  follow  the 

 
requirements  to  be  the  Messiah.  The  the 

 
requirements  to  be  Messiah  is  a  the  Jews 

 
will  go  back  to  Israel.  There'll  be  a 

 
big  war.  Some stuff  will  happen  and 

 
eventually  we  all  come  and  he'll  rise 

 
up.  He'll  be  a  descendant  of  King  David. 

 
We  we  both  he  how  is  he  okay  listen  a 

 
descendant  because  in  in  in  the  Jewish 

 
faith  comes  descendant  of  your  tradition 

 
and  you  restore  pass  through  your  father 

 
Jesus  who's  his  father 

 
okay  so  here's  basically 

 
how  I'm  different  from  my  wonderful 

 
awesome  Jewish  friends 

 
my  wonderful  awesome  Jewish  friends 

 
insist  that  tradition 

 
Moses  Hebrew  prophets,  that's  truth. 

 
And  when  I  ask  them,  what's  the  evidence 

 
that  Moses  and  tradition  are  true? 

 
I'm  scared  by  the  answers  that  I  get. 

 
The  reason  that  I  follow  Jesus  Christ  is 

 
because  of  his  sinless  life,  his  amazing 

 
ethical  teachings,  the  sermon  on  the 

 
mount,  his  incredible  death,  forgiving 

 
enemies,  and  then  his  resurrection.  His 

 
resurrection  sets  Christ  apart  from 

 
Moses,  Isaiah,  Muhammad,  Sedartha  Gatama 

 
Buddha,  the  avatars  of  Hinduism.  His 

 
resurrection  is  unique.  That's  why  I 

 
seriously  would  encourage  you  check  out 

 
Jesus. 

 
Does  that  make  sense?  You  didn't  tell  me 

 
what  the  explanation  was.  What  do  they 

 
tell  you? 

 
They  tell  me  it's  our  tradition.  It's 

 
our  heritage. 

 
It's  our  heritage  we  can  trace  it  back 

 
and  also  they  also  tell  you  that  and 

 
also  first  off  Moses  was  not  sinless 

 
Moses  Moses  killed  a  person  right 

 
exactly  he  is  the  great  he  is  the 

 
greatest  prophet  of  all  time  we  we  both 

 
agree 

 
no  I  think  Jesus  is  greater  than  Moses 

 
he  said  but  he  says  he's  not  a  prophet 

 
Jesus  good  in  that  sense  correct  okay 

 
but  in  the  same  time  there's  other 

 
people  in  the  Bible  that  didn't  sin  the 

 
the  the  father  the  father  the  father  of 

 
the  father  of  king  David  didn't  sin 

 
Jesse 

 
You  see,  I  I  don't  know.  I  don't know. 

 
Jesse  sinned.  The  father  of  King  David. 

 
No,  it  said  it  says  specifically  he  did 

 
not  sin.  No,  it  doesn't.  Yes,  it  does. 

 
Jesse  didn't  live  a  sinless  life.  And 

 
obviously  David  didn't.  That  dude  was 

 
one  royal  sinner.  No,  David  did  not.  But 

 
didn't  Jesse  sinned?  Okay.  But  Jesus 

 
Christ  did  not.  That  sets  him  apart  as 

 
unique 

 
as  different.  Muhammad  sinned.  And  I 

 
respect  Muhammad.  Okay.  It's  not  like  I 

 
dump  on  Muhammad.  In  fact,  I  love  his 

 
his  one  of  his  five  pillars.  Give  arms 

 
to  the  poor.  I  agree  with  him  totally. 

 
In  John  chapter  8,  Jesus  looks  in  the 

 
face  of  his  enemies  and  says,  "Which  one 

 
of  you  can  prove  me  guilty  of  sin?"  His 

 
enemies  are  silent.  A  fine  Jewish  man, 

 
the  Apostle  John,  who  lived  with  Christ 

 
very  closely  for  three  years  in  First 

 
John,  could  write,  "In  him  is  no  sin." 

 
So  that's  what  the  eyewitnesses  say.  He 

 
didn't  sin. 

 
which  is  kind  of  weird  because  all  the 

 
rest  of  us  sin  but  not  Jesus.  So  that 

 
demands  respect.  It  doesn't  mean  he's 

 
God  obviously  but  it  demands  respect. 

 
And  then  when  he  claims  to  be  God  and 

 
then  backs  it  up  with  an  historical 

 
resurrection.  Wow.  I  really  got  to  take 

 
this  guy  seriously.  It's  pretty 

 
impressive.  Jesus  has  not  filled  any  of 

 
the  requirements  to  to  be  to  be  the 

 
Messiah.  Good.  You're  right.  He  did  not 

 
fulfill  the  kingly.  No,  he  he  fulfilled 

 
the  suffering  servant  prophecies  like 

 
Isaiah  53.  He  was  the  suffering  servant 

 
who  was  crushed  for  our  iniquities. 

 
But  he  did  not,  you're  absolutely  right, 

 
he  did  not  fulfill  the  kingly  messianic 

 
prophecies.  He  said  that  he  would  return 

 
a  second  time.  And  when  he  returns,  it 

 
will  not  be  as  a  baby  born  in  a  manger 

 
in  Bethlehem.  It'll  be  as  the  all 

 
powerful  God.  And  there  will  be  a  day  of 

 
judgment  and  there  will  be  a  heaven  and 

 
a  hell.  So  you  see  now  the  question  is, 

 
yeah,  but  Cliff,  come  on.  Where  does  the 

 
Bible  say  that  the  Messiah  is  going  to 

 
come  twice? 

 
Good  question.  It  doesn't  say  he's  going 

 
to  come  twice,  but  it  also  doesn't  say 

 
he's  just  going  to  come  once  or  five 

 
times.  It  is  silent.  So  the  Old 

 
Testament  is  silent  regarding  how  many 

 
times  Messiah  is  to  come.  Obviously, 

 
what  Jesus  is  claiming  is  he  comes  the 

 
first  time  to  fulfill  the  suffering 

 
servant  prophecies  like  Isaiah  53,  but 

 
when  he  comes  a  second  time,  it'll  be  to 

 
fulfill  the  kingly  messianic  prophecies. 

 
And  there  will  be  a  day  of  judgment  and 

 
it  will  be  power,  not  someone  getting 

 
nailed  to  a  cross.  I  I  know  people  that 

 
know  Hebrew  because  I  because  I've 

 
learned  it  from  my  father,  my  father 

 
before  that,  from  my  father  before  that. 

 
Good.  Right.  Passed  down  for  tradition 

 
from  from  from  Sinai.  Right.  At  Sinai, 

 
Jesus  was  not  mentioned.  Everything  was 

 
given  up  there  and  brought  down.  Yeah. 

 
So  you  you  said  500  people  discovered 

 
Christ.  What  happens  then?  They  all  die. 

 
500.  So  do  you  understand  what  you're 

 
saying  is  that  we  now  we  cannot  ask 

 
these  500  people  what  happened?  Did  you 

 
see  this?  No.  Because  they're  not  there 

 
anymore  and  we  don't  know  who  they  are. 

 
But  with  with  3  million  people  at  Mount 

 
at  at  Sinai  who  received  the  Torah  from 

 
God,  we  can  I  can  trace  that  back.  I  can 

 
trace  myself  back  to  those  three  million 

 
people  with  specific  names  all  the  way 

 
back  to  Moshe  Rea,  back  to  Moses.  So, 

 
how  how  does  that  how  is  that  more  how 

 
does  Christian  how  is  Jesus  Christ  more 

 
reliable  than  than  what  the  original  is? 

 
What  is  based  off? 

 
I  would  encourage  you  to  put  your  faith 

 
in  Jesus  Christ  because  the  evidence  is 

 
he  died  and  really  rose  from  the  dead. 

 
He  lived  out  the  Torah  magnificently. 

 
So,  the  evidence  is  he's  consistent  and 

 
he's  reliable.  He  was  dead  and  he  rose 

 
from  the  dead.  So  you  can  trust  him.  He 

 
didn't  slam  Moses.  He  agreed  that  Moses 

 
was  inspired  by  God.  I  am  a  follower  of 

 
Christ.  I  worship  a  Jew. 

 
I  worship  a  Jew.  Jesus  was  a  Jew, 

 
not  a  Gentile. 

 
So  all  the  anti-semitism  that  has  gone 

 
on  in  the  name  of  Christianity  is  a 

 
farce  obviously  because  a  Christian  is 

 
someone  who  worships  a  Jew.  So  if 

 
somebody  says,  "I  believe  in  Jesus  and 

 
I'm  going  to  go  into  a  synagogue  and 

 
blow  Jews  away."  Major  major  hypocrisy. 

 
Major  breakdown  in  here.  Major.  If 

 
you're  a  Christian,  you  worship  a  Jew. 

 
You  believe  that  God  became  a  human 

 
being  and  he  was  a  Jew. 

 
So  anti-semitism  in  the  name  of 

 
Christianity  is  a  violent  contradiction. 

 
obvious.  I  think  you  all  know  me.  I 

 
stepped  out  here  and  I  simply  asked 

 
these  two  gentlemen  to  please  anytime 

 
you're  trying  to  kind  of,  you  know, 

 
spread  Christianity  or  talk  about  it,  if 

 
you  please,  if  you  mention  the  word 

 
Islam,  you  kind  of  be  gentle  with  it 

 
because  I  believe  that  both  of  them  were 

 
kind  of  affecting  Islam  indirectly 

 
because  they're  kind  of  reinforcing  the 

 
stereotypical  Muslims,  bad  terrorists, 

 
polygamist,  all  these.  So  I  was 

 
employing  them  and  so  we  got  too  deep  in 

 
the  conversations  and  Mr.  clip,  right? 

 
Just  cliff  cliff  cliff.  You  informed  me 

 
that  you  asked  me  a  question.  You  asked 

 
me  a  question.  Should  I  as  a  Muslim 

 
believe  a  man  who  was  born  after  500 

 
years  of  the  disciples? 

 
And  according  to  you,  I  did  not  answer 

 
your  question,  but  what  I  said,  I 

 
believe  it  goes  back  further  that 

 
Muhammad  was  mentioned  in  the  Torah.  You 

 
disagreed  with  me.  You  disagreed  and 

 
then  you  resumed  the  question  and  you 

 
still  assume  that  I  didn't  answer  it. 

 
I  brought  the  evidence  that  Muhammad  is 

 
mentioned  in  name  in  Hebrew  in  Solomon, 

 
Song  of  Solomon.  And  I  simply  wish  of 

 
you  to  read  it  out  loud  because  you  and 

 
it's  it's  right  here  actually.  Sure. 

 
I'll  read  it  out  loud.  It's  Song  of 

 
Solomon  by  in  Hebrew.  In  Hebrew.  No,  I'm 

 
not  going  to  read  it  in  Hebrew.  Hebrew 

 
matters.  Hebrew  is  everything.  No, 

 
Hebrew  is  not  everything.  Language  is 

 
language.  Differences  on  in  the  Hebrew. 

 
You  got  to  be  careful.  But  know 

 
something.  Arabic  names.  Every  Hebrew 

 
scholar  I've  talked  to  Arabic  names 

 
think  that  that's  Muhammad.  Arabic  names 

 
have  meaning.  You're  pulling  it  up  on 

 
the  internet.  If  you  take  if  you  take 

 
Oh,  no,  no,  no.  That's  not  I  I  have  the 

 
similar  name  and  I  know  what  it  means. 

 
Don't  tell  me  it's  internet.  No,  that's 

 
me.  We're  glad  you're  here.  We  love  you. 

 
We  respect  you.  You  are  totally  wrong 

 
when  you  say  that  the  Song  of  Solomon 

 
talks  about  Muhammad.  Sir,  Muhammad 

 
wasn't  born  till  570.  It's  just  like 

 
Jesus  was  mentioned  in  the  Old 

 
Testament.  wasn't  born.  Jesus  is  not 

 
mentioned  in  the  Old  Testament  as  an 

 
historical  person.  Why  don't  you  read  it 

 
out  loud  in  Hebrew?  No.  Didn't  you  hear 

 
what  I  said?  Jesus  is  not  mentioned  in 

 
the  Old  Testament  as  an  historical 

 
person.  Something  about  the  lady  who's 

 
praying.  She  steps  on  the  snake,  right? 

 
I  mean,  I  think  it's  not  saying  Jesus. 

 
Jesus  is  not  mentioned  in  a  document 

 
that  is  written  before  his  birth.  I'm 

 
here's  talking  about  Muhammad  though. 

 
I'm  not  okay.  Like,  if  he's  not 

 
mentioned,  then  my  bad.  But  I  have  here 

 
a  verse  in  the  Hebrew  language  when  it 

 
got  Okay.  I  don't  know  how  to  read.  But 

 
there  is  You  don't  know  how  to  read  it? 

 
I  don't  know.  But  I  know  that  the  word 

 
is  there.  Read  it  out  loud.  All  right.  I 

 
know.  It  says  Muhammad.  Here  it  is.  Why? 

 
Why?  Why  did  you  turn  away?  You're  here 

 
to  help  me.  No,  I'm  not  here  to  play 

 
games.  I'm  not  playing  games.  Yes,  you 

 
are.  You're  playing  games.  I  think 

 
you're  you're  blinded,  sir.  You're 

 
blinded  cuz  you're  playing  games.  No, 

 
I'm  not.  Fine.  I'll  read  the  passage. 

 
Solomon  5:16  right  in  Hebrew.  No,  I'm 

 
going  to  read  it  in  English  for  you  in 

 
No,  it's  not.  You  took  the  name.  His 

 
mouth  is  sweetness  itself.  He  is 

 
altogether  lovely.  This  is  my  lover. 

 
This  my  friend,  oh  daughters  of 

 
Jerusalem.  There  is  no  mention  of 

 
Muhammad  in  Song  of  Solomon  ver  16.  Why 

 
does  it  say  we  call  him  Muhammad  in  the 

 
in  the  and  he's  not  talking  about  an 

 
historical  Muhammad?  It's  not  even 

 
referring  to  him,  sir.  You're  playing  a 

 
little  semantic  game.  It's  not  game.  You 

 
want  to  play  a  game?  We'll  go  play 

 
basketball.  Okay.  I'm  not  out  here  to 

 
play  semantic  games.  Why  do  you  refuse 

 
to  look  at  it?  You're  afraid.  I  won't 

 
look  at  anything.  I  just  read  it  for 

 
you.  You  want  me  to  look  at  it?  I'll 

 
read  it.  Look  at  it  and  read  it  in  the 

 
Hebrew  and  then  see  the  translation  and 

 
see  what  happens.  That's  all  I'm  asking 

 
of  you.  I'm  not  asking  you  the 

 
impossible.  Read  it  in  the  Hebrew  and 

 
see  the  translation  and  see  what 

 
happens.  So,  let's  let's  move  on  to 

 
Okay,  we'll  keep  talking.  How  can  we 

 
trust  the  Quran?  Why  is  it  reliable?  And 

 
we'll  compare  it  right  to  the  Bible. 

 
This  is  the  same  example  right  here. 

 
This  is  a  joke.  A  joke.  Yes,  it  is.  It's 

 
a  total  flaw.  You're  calling  the  Hebrew 

 
language.  Is  that  what  happened?  The  way 

 
the  lingu  linguistic  trick  you're 

 
playing  is  intellectually  dishonest.  The 

 
Hebrew  is  not  talking  about  an 

 
historical  person,  Muhammad.  You  still 

 
haven't  read  it,  by  the  way.  I  did  read 

 
it.  No,  you  didn't  read  it  out  loud.  Oh, 

 
I'm  not  going  to  read  it  out  loud.  If 

 
you  want  to  read  it  out  loud,  go  right 

 
ahead.  I  read  out  loud.  I  already  did 

 
that  verse  out  of  the  NIV,  a  very 

 
accurate  translation  of  the  Hebrew.  But 

 
then  it's  not  accurate.  Yes,  it  is 

 
accurate.  The  name  Muhammad  is  means  the 

 
one  who  is  altogether  lovely,  which  is 

 
the  thing  that  you  read.  Yeah.  But  then 

 
when  you  translate  the  name  Muhammad  to 

 
altogether,  you  miss  the  name  Muhammad. 

 
If  you  became  the  masters  in  in  the 

 
biblical 

 
religion,  you  will  never  recognize  it 

 
was  Muhammad  because  the  name  was  taken. 

 
You  don't  have  masters  in  it.  Do  you 

 
have a  masters  in  it?  Hebrew. 

 
Apparently,  man,  he  doesn't  know  that 

 
you  don't.  He's  laughing  at  me  looking 

 
away.  They're  playing  a  game.  Why  is 

 
this  a  game?  Sir,  you  you  got  to  learn 

 
to  defend  your  faith  better  than 

 
stringing  some  words  that  don't  mean 

 
Muhammad  and  acting  like  they  do.  That's 

 
talking  about  a  lover  in  a  love  poem, 

 
the  Song  of  Solomon.  It's  written  a 

 
thousand  years  at  least  before  Muhammad 

 
ever  lived.  I  don't  know.  It  is  true 

 
that  I  don't  know  Hebrew,  but  I  know 

 
very  well  that  Muhamadim,  the  M  in  the 

 
end  of  the  Hebrew  language  refers  to  a 

 
person  who  is  highly  respected  and  to  be 

 
a  prophet.  That's  that's  the  it's  just 

 
like  Abuhim.  But  hey,  you  know  Hebrew. 

 
Now,  let  me  ask  you,  who  raised  Islam 

 
out  here  today?  Here.  Yeah.  Who?  It's 

 
the  same  concept.  Who  raised  Islam  out 

 
here?  Did  I  do  it  or  did  you?  Not  me. 

 
Yes,  you  did.  We  were  talking  about 

 
atheism  and  agnosticism.  You  stood  up 

 
here  and  raised  Islam.  So  stop  accusing 

 
us  of  raising  Islam.  I  have  told  you 

 
that  I  respect  you.  I  love  you 

 
indirectly.  No.  Absolutely  not.  Every 

 
time  you  You're  the  one  who  raised  it. 

 
You're  now  if  you're  going to  jump  into 

 
the  kitchen.  It  gets  hot.  You're  not 

 
listening  to  me.  Yeah.  You're  not 

 
listening  to  me.  You're  not  listening  to 

 
me.  You're  not  listening  to  me  either. 

 
You  are  enforcing  the  stereotype.  I'm 

 
not  enforcing  anything.  You've 

 
interrupted  and  you're  talking  nonsense. 

 
Like  bad.  How  they're  terrorist  every 

 
time  you  talk  about  it.  I  never  said 

 
that.  We  said  the  opposite.  Muslims  are 

 
not  all  terrorists.  You  mentioned  how 

 
Muhammad  was  violent  and  you  did  not 

 
give  Muhammad  was  violent.  No,  he  surah 

 
nurah  n  Muhammad  writes,  "Kill  the 

 
infidel."  That's  violence  in  he  never 

 
carried  a  sword.  Never.  You're  right. 

 
Muhammad  attacks  you.  We  already  We 

 
don't  want  to  talk  about  Islam.  Why  are 

 
you  forcing  us  to  talk  about  it  and  then 

 
accusing  us  of  raising?  I'm  simply 

 
asking  you  to  recognize  people  and  No, 

 
you're  not  asking.  You  ask  the  question, 

 
I  begin  to  answer  and  you  interrupt  me. 

 
You're  not  asking.  I  did  read  it.  Okay, 

 
but  you  didn't  read  it  out  loud  and 

 
you're  still  not  I'm  not  going  to  read 

 
it  out  loud.  I'm  here  to  convince  you 

 
because  it's  a  false  translation.  I'm 

 
not  going to  read  it.  Go  through  every 

 
synagogue.  I  bet  you  know  some  rabbis  in 

 
a  lot  of  synagogues.  Why  don't  you  go 

 
ask  them  and  they  will  tell  you  the  same 

 
thing.  I  dare  you.  I  got  many  rabbi 

 
friends.  I  meet  with  them  on  a  regular 

 
basis  and  they  are  intellectually 

 
honest.  The  Old  Testament  never  once 

 
talks  about  Muhammad.  Never  once.  And 

 
neither  does  the  New  Testament.  It 

 
doesn't  talk  about  Muhammad.  And  make 

 
sure  you  ask  many.  By  the  way,  we 

 
respect  you  and  we  love  you  and  we're 

 
glad  you're  here  in  the  United  States. 

 
So  don't  lump  us  into  a  stereotype.  No, 

 
you're  not  listening.  We  celebrate 

 
Muslims  being  here  in  the  United  States. 

 
We  are  here  to  defend  you.  But  when 

 
you're  intellectually  dishonest  and  when 

 
you  lie,  that's  we're  going  to  call  you 

 
on  it.  And  you  haven't  read  I  still 

 
respect  you.  You  haven't  read  it.  I  just 

 
did  read  it.  You  gave  it  to  me  and  I 

 
read  it.  Read  it  out  loud.  I'm  not  going 

 
to  read  it  out  loud.  Difference  in  the 

 
world.  You  can  read  it  out  loud.  Oh, 

 
absolutely.  I  already  did. 

 
That's  what  it  says  in  the  in  the 

 
Hebrew.  When  it  got  translated,  they 

 
took  the  name  Muhammad  who  means 

 
altogether  lovely  and  they  say  this  guy 

 
who  is  altogether  lovely.  So  everybody 

 
in  the  world  right  now  is  not  going  to 

 
know  that  Muhammad  was  here.  Why  don't 

 
Could  you  please  comment  on  that?  No. 

 
Why  do  you  trust?  No,  because  you  can't. 

 
Oh,  it's  easy  sir.  Any  Hebrew  scholar 

 
could  tell  you  that  Song  of  Solomon  5:16 

 
is  not  talking  about  a  dude  who  was  born 

 
in  570  AD  and  lived  till  about  632  AD. 

 
Muhammad.  It's  not  talking  about  that. 

 
It  was  written  a  thousand  years  before. 

 
So,  it's  not  talking  about  Muhammad. 

 
It's  not.  And  you're  intellectually 

 
dishonest  if  you  say  that.  The  same  way 

 
I  would  be  intellectually  dishonest  if  I 

 
said  the  Old  Testament  mentions  Jesus  of 

 
Nazareth.  No,  it  does  not,  guys.  The  Old 

 
Testament  was  written  to  say  it's  before 

 
Christ.  The  Old  Testament  never  mentions 

 
the  word  Jesus.  Google  Solomon  and  it 

 
would  be  there.  Sir,  your  Muslim  friend 

 
want  you  over  there.  Why  don't  you  go 

 
and  have  a  good  day  over  there?  Solomon 

 
5:16  in  Hebrew  and  you'll  see  it.  All 

 
right.  Think  of  me.  I'm  crazy,  but  just 

 
make  sure  you  have  time  for  We  are  glad 

 
you're  here  in  the  United  States. 

 
Welcome.  It's  good  to  have  you  and  I 

 
appreciate  it.  Answered  me.  I  have 

 
answered  you.  You  can  communicate  truth 

 
through  myth. 

 
Jesus  communicates  truth  through 

 
parable.  Parables  are  not  historical 

 
records  of  anything.  They're  stories  and 

 
Jesus  communicates  truth  through 

 
stories.  And  that's  what  the  vadas  and 

 
yupanads  are.  They're  stories.  It's  not 

 
a  historical  claim.  It's  a  story.  It's  a 

 
myth.  But  truth  is  being  communicated  is 

 
the  claim.  Am  I  right  or  wrong?  No. 

 
You're  basically  saying  that  what  I 

 
believe  to  be  God  is  a  myth.  No.  What 

 
I'm  saying  is  the  avatars. 

 
Okay.  I'm  sorry.  Are  communicated  in 

 
mythological  you  refer  to  narrative.  The 

 
avatars  are  not  space-time  people.  Who 

 
exactly  are  these  avatars  you're 

 
referring  to?  May  I  ask?  Arjuna 

 
um  like  Shiva  Brahma  and  and  you're 

 
saying  those  are  by  the  way  who  I 

 
believe  to  be  God  which  you  claim  are 

 
mythological  characters. 

 
No,  no,  no.  They're  appearing  on  Earth, 

 
them  being  seen  Mhm.  is  not  an 

 
historical  event.  It's  not  the  claim 

 
that  these  guys  really  walk  the  planet. 

 
It's  more  that  they  are  spirits  that 

 
exist  and  they're  the  truth.  And  that's 

 
fine.  I  got  no  problem  with  that.  But 

 
let's  be  honest.  It's  it's  not  a  claim 

 
of  historicity.  It's  a  claim  that  these 

 
spirits  are  true.  Guess  what?  I've  never 

 
seen  God.  But  I  believe  God  is  true.  But 

 
I  would  never  say  to  you,  God  the  Father 

 
walked  on  Earth.  No.  God  the  Father 

 
walking  on  earth  never  occurred.  It's 

 
not  an  historical  event.  Jesus  Christ 

 
God  in  human  form  walked  on  earth  right 

 
okay  so  the  avatars  of  Hinduism  are  not 

 
historical  people  who  are  born  in  a  town 

 
live  and  then  we  have  the  historical 

 
record  of  them  they're  mythological 

 
figures  but  the  point  is  truth  is  being 

 
communicated  through  myth  right  but  um 

 
you  then  seem  to  be  saying  that  truth  is 

 
both  true  in  the  upanishads  and  the 

 
bible  which  actually  they're  somewhat 

 
contradictory  in  some  ways  at least 

 
brilliant  absolutely 

 
So  now  we  have  a  truth  claim  in  the 

 
vadas  and  upon  right  we  have  a  truth 

 
claim  in  the  gospels  and  obviously  those 

 
two  truth  claims  contradict  each  other. 

 
Well  actually  they're  mostly  similar  but 

 
in  key  details  they  do  differ.  Yes.  Oh 

 
come  on.  Well  all  religions  in  the  world 

 
promote  good  life.  I  mean  if  I  follow 

 
any  religion  in  the  world  I  the  society 

 
would  be  fine.  We  just  suck  because  we 

 
don't.  All  right.  But  obviously  Jesus  is 

 
saying  there  are  not  many  gods.  Jesus 

 
stuck  to  the  monotheism  of  Judaism. 

 
There's  one  God.  He  repeated  the  Schma 

 
of  Israel.  Hero  God,  hero  Israel,  the 

 
Lord  our  God  is  one.  Now,  obviously, 

 
that's  not  what  Hinduism  teaches,  right? 

 
So,  how  do  you,  you  know,  decide  which 

 
one  is  more  true?  Well,  that's  what  you 

 
got  to  do.  You  got  to  study  the  evades 

 
and  upanishads  and  you  got  to  ask,  okay, 

 
is  there  evidence  that  supports  the 

 
truth  claims? 

 
And  then  you  got  to  read  the  gospels  and 

 
ask  yourself,  is  there  evidence  to 

 
support  the  truth  claims  of  Christ?  And 

 
what  is  the  evidence  that  supports  the 

 
true  claims  of  Christ?  His  sinless  life, 

 
his  incredible  ethical  teachings,  his 

 
death  on  a  cross,  loving  and  forgiving 

 
his  enemies,  and  his  resurrection  from 

 
the  dead.  Those  four  points.  All  right. 

 
But  then  that  is  equivalent  to  saying 

 
over  the  history  of  time,  people  who 

 
lived  the  way  the  upanishads  teach  would 

 
cause  just  as  good,  you  know,  good  being 

 
and  good  life.  How  is  it  that?  And 

 
secondly,  why  do  you  say  that  he  was 

 
completely  sinless?  What  exactly  is  sin? 

 
Why  are  you  saying  I  mean  you  claiming 

 
that  he  is  sinless  is  like  saying  that  I 

 
have  my  own  idea  of  sin  and  he's 

 
adhering  to  it.  Therefore  it's  your  own 

 
idea  and  not  actually  Jesus's. 

 
Fascinating  point.  No  sin  is  not 

 
something  that  I  make  up.  Mhm.  Sin, 

 
justice,  goodness  flow  from  the 

 
character  of  God.  And  according  to  both 

 
the  Torah  and  the  New  Testament, 

 
the  goodness  of  God  is  revealed  in 

 
the  commandments.  Do  not  murder.  Love, 

 
do  not  lie,  speak  the  truth,  do  not 

 
covet,  celebrate  with  another  person  all 

 
the  talents  they  have.  Do  not  be  jealous 

 
or  envious.  Build  other  people  up.  So 

 
sin  is  saying,  "God,  your  definition  is 

 
wrong.  My  definition  is  right. 

 
Isn't  that  circular  argument  though? 

 
Like  saying,  "I  know  that  Jesus  was 

 
sinless  because  God  said  so  and  what  God 

 
says  is  sinless.  Therefore,  there's  no 

 
basis  for  what  is  and  is  not  sinless 

 
except  for  your  own  decision."  No.  The 

 
reason  I  answered  you  was  cuz  you  said, 

 
"Cliff,  you're  just  making  it  up."  No, 

 
no,  no.  I'm  not  making  it  up.  You  read 

 
the  Old  Testament,  the  Ten  Commandments, 

 
the  Decalogue  in  Exodus  20.  Can  I 

 
interrupt  you  for  a  second?  Uh,  you're 

 
saying  you  knew  what  sin  is  and  is  not 

 
by  based  on  Jesus's  word.  But  you  claim 

 
that  Jesus  lived  a  sinless  life  before 

 
you  even  had  and  I  mean  while  he's 

 
living  his  life,  you  had  no  real  idea  of 

 
what  sin  is  or  is  not.  So  how  do  you 

 
know  that  he  lived  a  sinless  life  before 

 
he  even  told  you?  And  if  it's  after  he 

 
told  you,  then  he  can  just  suit  it  to 

 
whatever  he  did  and  therefore  he  would 

 
be  sinless. 

 
Jesus  was  a  Jew,  right?  And  as  a  Jew,  he 

 
believed  that  the  Ten  Commandments  were 

 
from  God.  Mhm.  From  his  father.  Mhm.  and 

 
he  lived  up  to  those  ten  commandments 

 
perfectly.  That  was  his  definition  of 

 
sinless.  All  right?  And  if  I  for  example 

 
believed  in  something  else,  say  I  don't 

 
know  like  five  commandments  that  I  come 

 
up  with  auto  or  some  other  person  comes 

 
up  with  and  I  perfectly  and  I  strongly 

 
believe  that  that  is  the  truth  and  I 

 
perfectly  adhere  to  it  to  my  entire 

 
life.  I  can  claim  that  I  have  been 

 
sinless  and  so  can  other  people  who,  you 

 
know,  use  that  same  argument.  Just 

 
because  he  was  Jew  and  he  followed 

 
through  what  he  believed  does  not  make 

 
him  sinless  anymore  than  me  following 

 
through  what  I  believe  would  make  him 

 
sinless.  Right?  But  Jesus  as  a  Jew 

 
insisted  the  Ten  Commandments  are  the 

 
law  of  God.  Right.  And  and  then  he  lived 

 
up  to  that  incredibly  high  ethical 

 
standard.  And  if  I  insist  So  what  you're 

 
saying  is  if  I  insist  on  some  incredibly 

 
high  ethical  standard,  which  again  is  we 

 
don't  even  know  what  that  high  standard 

 
is  or  if  it  even  is  ethical.  And  then  I 

 
just,  you  know,  obey  these  laws  that 

 
someone  made,  then  you're  claiming  that 

 
I'm  equally  sinless  as  Jesus.  I  can 

 
promise  you  that  if  you  espouse  a  very 

 
high  ethical  standard  and  then  live  up 

 
to  that  high  ethical  standard  perfectly, 

 
I  will  respect  you  highly.  That's  why  I 

 
respect  Gandhi  as  much  as  I  do  because 

 
Gandhi  lived  up  to  a  very  high  ethical 

 
standard  very  very  well,  didn't  he?  But 

 
then  that's  why  I  respect  Gandhi.  If 

 
Gandhi  would  have  gone  around  with  a 

 
racist  attitude,  if  Gandhi  would  have 

 
gone  around  knocking  people's  legs  out 

 
from  underneath  them,  cut  him  off  at  the 

 
knees,  I  would  not  respect  Gandhi  as 

 
much  as  I  do.  We're  coming  back  to  again 

 
the  argument  of  what  is  a  high  ethical 

 
standard  because  we  don't  know  what  sin 

 
is  or  is  not  without  these  high 

 
standards  that  we  aspire  to  and  we're 

 
making  up  these  standards  or  something. 

 
Good.  My  argument  is  that  you  understand 

 
by  exercising  your  conscience  in  a 

 
rational  responsible  way.  Mhm.  You  have 

 
a  very  good  understanding  of  what  is 

 
right  and  wrong.  That  is  why  if  I  go  up 

 
to  this  guy  and  smack  him  in  the  face, 

 
you're  going  to  say,  "Whoa, 

 
what  are  you  doing?"  And  if  I  go  up  to 

 
this  guy  and  steal  his  backpack,  you're 

 
going  to  say,  "Whoa,  what  are  you 

 
doing?"  And  if  I  exhibit  a  racist 

 
attitude  towards  you,  you're  going  to 

 
say,  "Whoa,  time  out.  What  are  you 

 
doing?"  See,  you  have  a  conscience  that 

 
ties  you  into  those  ten  commandments, 

 
that  ties  you  into  the  teachings  of 

 
Christ,  the  same  way  I  do,  the  same  way 

 
everybody  does  here.  I  don't  think  you 

 
need  to  have  a  PhD  in  the  Bible  to  know 

 
that  the  rape  of  a  woman  is  absolutely 

 
wrong.  I  think  you've  got  a  conscience 

 
that  will  inform  you  very  quickly  that 

 
rape  is  wrong.  All  right.  So,  you're 

 
saying  that,  for  example,  the  him  you 

 
stealing  the  backpack  would  be  kind  of 

 
as  wrong,  right?  I  think  you  would 

 
believe  that  wrong,  but  not  necessarily. 

 
Good.  I  mean,  property  again  is  a 

 
concept  that  is  inherently  selfish,  for 

 
example.  Okay,  we  disagree.  Um,  so,  and 

 
I'm  just  not  necessarily  my  point  here, 

 
but  say  communism  for  example.  No,  you 

 
speak  for  yourself,  though.  Come  on  now. 

 
I  don't  want  to  debate  with  Karl  Marx. 

 
He's  dead.  I  want  to  debate  or  talk  with 

 
you.  Okay.  So  is  Jesus.  We're  still 

 
discussing.  No.  No.  Jesus  is  alive.  He 

 
rose  from  the  dead.  That's  different 

 
from  All right.  Then  where  is  he  now?  I 

 
don't  see  him  alive.  Where  is  he  now? 

 
He's  in  heaven.  All right.  So,  he's 

 
going  to  come  back  a  second  time  and 

 
jeez.  All  right.  Um,  so  where 

 
you  know  what?  Okay.  That  point  is 

 
obviously  not  going  to  get  anywhere  and 

 
I'm  going  to  get  irritated  by  it.  But  if 

 
you  want  to  shut  down  and  get  irritated, 

 
that's  your  decision.  All right.  Fine. 

 
What  are  we  arguing  again?  Cuz  you  seem 

 
to  be  I  think  we're  done.  You  don't  know 

 
where  we're  talking  about.  I  think  we're 

 
done.  No,  I  don't  think  we're  done  yet. 

 
Oh,  okay.  Well,  then  give  it  to  me.  What 

 
are  you  thinking?  All right.  So,  your 

 
issue  of  theft  here,  you're  assuming 

 
that  that's  wrong,  right?  Yes.  But 

 
that's  in  the  case  of  our  society.  For 

 
example,  if  uh  communism  worked  out  well 

 
and  uh  that  proletarian  dictatorship 

 
actually,  you  know,  passed  through  and 

 
moved  on  to  the  rest  of  the  stages  of 

 
Karl  Marx's  supposed  philosophy.  Um 

 
would  property  and  things  like  that 

 
would  not  exist  and  there  would  be  no 

 
such  thing  as  you  taking  it  from  him. 

 
You're  just  utilizing  it  for  whatever 

 
you  need.  It's  not  necessarily  theft.  No 

 
offense  to  Adam  Smith.  No  offense  to 

 
Karl  Marx.  My  view  of  stealing  his 

 
backpack  is  being  wrong  has  nothing  to 

 
do  with  communism,  has  nothing  to  do 

 
with  capitalism,  no  offense  to  the  US 

 
Supreme  Court.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with 

 
the  dictates  of  the  US  Supreme  Court. 

 
The  reason  that  I'm  convinced  that 

 
stealing  his  backpack  is  wrong,  is  not 

 
because  him  having  a  backpack  is 

 
selfish.  Rather,  he's  a  human  being 

 
created  in  the  image  of  God,  which  means 

 
he  has  dignity.  Because  he  has  dignity, 

 
I  need  to  respect  him.  And  one  of  the 

 
ways  to  respect  him  is  to  respect  the 

 
property  that  belongs  to  him.  Therefore, 

 
stealing  his  backpack  is  wrong.  Um,  you 

 
seem  to  be  believing  that  property  is  an 

 
inherent  right  to  people.  Uh,  that  pro 

 
people  have  a  right  to  property,  then 

 
that  property  is  something  that  belongs 

 
to  me.  Why  could  you  can't  you  say  that 

 
everything  belongs  as  a  society  to 

 
someone 

 
and  everything  belongs  to  society? 

 
Everything  belongs  to  a  group  of  people. 

 
For  example,  a  family,  you  can  own  stuff 

 
and  it's  not  really  theft  if  people 

 
utilize  it.  I'm  saying  this  idea  of 

 
theft  is  not  necessarily  wrong  because 

 
the  idea  of  theft  would  not  necessarily 

 
exist  in  a  different  society.  Okay.  So, 

 
a  good  point.  So,  what  are  you  so  is 

 
this  what  you're  saying?  Right  and  wrong 

 
are  determined  by  culture  by  society  in 

 
a  sense.  Yes.  Okay.  Then  I'm  going  to 

 
give  you  an  illustration. 

 
Nuremberg  trials  1945  to  1949. 

 
24  Nazi  war  criminals  are  defended  by 

 
Nazi  lawyers. 

 
The  Nazi  lawyers  inform  the  judges  at 

 
the  Nuremberg  trial.  You  have  no  right 

 
to  condemn  these  Nazi  war  criminals 

 
because  they  simply  were  carrying  out 

 
orders. 

 
They  simply  were  doing  what  their 

 
culture  taught  them  to  do.  The  trial 

 
shut  down  because  those  brilliant  Nazi 

 
lawyers  were  on  to  something.  If  it's 

 
true  that  culture  defines  right  and 

 
wrong,  there  is  no  way  for  the  Allies  to 

 
judge  the  Nazi  war  criminals  because  it 

 
was  their  culture  who  taught  them  that 

 
the  Holocaust  was  good  and  they  were 

 
just  following  orders.  Robert  Jackson, 

 
the  council  for  the  American  contingent, 

 
stood  up  and  said,  "There  is  a  law  above 

 
the  law."  And  because  of  the  law  above 

 
the  law,  we  can  judge  these  Nazi  war 

 
criminals  as  doing  something  wrong.  And 

 
the  trial  continued.  And  those  24  Nazi 

 
war  criminals  were  judged  as  having  done 

 
something  wrong.  Right?  Does  that  make 

 
sense  to  you?  Yeah,  that  makes  sense. 

 
except  that  I  disagree  that  just  because 

 
uh  someone  else  culturally  believes  that 

 
what  they  think  is  right  does  not 

 
necessarily  entitle  them  to  do  whatever 

 
it  is  they  want  in  the  sense  that  for 

 
example  I  have  my  beliefs  and  as  a 

 
society  the  United  States  has  a  set  of 

 
beliefs  and  if  they're  not  willing  to 

 
carry  out  these  beliefs  because 

 
they  other  culture  for  example  the  Nazis 

 
killing  the  Jews  is  still  deemed  wrong 

 
in  our  culture  and  as  such  we  punish 

 
them  based  on  what  our  beliefs  are  of 

 
right  and  wrong  not  what  their  beliefs 

 
are  because  if  we  always  assume  that 

 
what  they  think  is  right  is  right  then 

 
we  won't  be  able  to  get  anywhere  but  as 

 
a  society  we  agreed  that  killing  the 

 
Jews  is  wrong  and  as  such  we  punish  them 

 
but  Robert  Jackson's  whole  argument  was 

 
there  is  a  law  above  a  nation's  law 

 
there  is  a  law  above  a  cultural  law  and 

 
that  law  obviously  rests  in  the 

 
existence  of  God  because  the  only  way 

 
there  can  be  a  law  above  a  cultural  law 

 
is  if  there  is  some  type  of  mind  prior 

 
to  the  human  mind  that  creates  and 

 
defines  right  and  wrong  and  I'm  saying 

 
that  that  natural  above  law  is 

 
unnecessary  and  I  don't  see  why  it's 

 
necessary  to  judge  these  people.  They  in 

 
your  belief  okay  the  people  who  are 

 
punishing  are  the  ones  who  are  have  been 

 
put  into  authority  by  society  and 

 
society  as  a  whole  decided  that  that  is 

 
wrong  and  as  such  we  decide  to  judge 

 
them  based  on  what  we  decided  is  right 

 
or  wrong  and  how  is  that  necessitate  a 

 
higher  law. 

 
My  experience  is  that  people  can  follow 

 
their  conscience  instead  of  following 

 
their  culture.  And  we  have  the  utmost 

 
respect  for  people  who  follow  their 

 
conscience  which  ties  them  into  a  law 

 
above  the  law  and  they  critique  their 

 
culture.  And  we  have  the  utmost  respect 

 
for  those  people,  don't  we?  Our  laws  and 

 
or  even  though  I  guess  you  can  say 

 
culture,  but  our  constitution  for 

 
example  was  an  intellectual  effort,  not 

 
some  kind  of  just 

 
uh  saying  I'm  going  to  appeal  to  this 

 
natural  law  concept.  It's  uh 

 
intellectual  effort  to  say  this  is  what 

 
I  believe  using  my  own  conscience  is 

 
right  and  I'm  going to  write  it  down  on 

 
paper  and  make  it  the  supreme  law  of  the 

 
land  and  that  is  what  we  decide  to 

 
follow  consciously  not  based  on  culture. 

 
You  don't  think  the  US  constitution  was 

 
based  on  natural  law  and  divine  law?  It 

 
that's  what  they  claim  technically  but 

 
does  not  mean  that  it's  not  a  conscious 

 
effort.  Oh  is  it  definitely  a  conscious 

 
effort?  Absolutely.  Um  so  what  was  your 

 
response  to  the  reason  for  no  necess  not 

 
your  argument  for  the  natural  law 

 
existing?  I  said  that  it  doesn't  need  to 

 
be  there  and  you  seem  to  be  thinking 

 
that  it  does.  I  think  every  one  of  us 

 
here  understands  from  the  illustration 

 
that  I  gave  from  Nuremberg  that  indeed 

 
there  is  a  law  above  the  cultural  law. 

 
If  my  culture  says  that  black  people  are 

 
three-fifths  the  value  of  white  people, 

 
I  can  follow  my  conscience  and  I  can 

 
follow  my  reason  and  figure  out  that  no, 

 
that's  an  unjust  law.  That  was  Dr. 

 
Martin  Luther  King's  argument  in  his 

 
letter  from  a  Birmingham  jail  in 

 
Alabama.  He  wrote  to  the  white  Christian 

 
ministers  in  Birmingham,  Alabama.  And  he 

 
said, "Guess  what,  fellas? 

 
The  law  of  the  land  that  you  are 

 
commanding  me  to  follow,  that  black  boys 

 
sit  at  the  back  of  the  bus,  that  black 

 
folk  have  to  drink  from  different  water 

 
fountains,  well,  guess  what?  The  law  of 

 
God  is  above  the  law  of  the  land,  the 

 
law  of  this  culture.  And  you  guys  as 

 
Christian  ministers,  even  though  you're 

 
white,  should  realize  that  those  laws 

 
are  racist  and  they're  wrong."  So  from 

 
his  prison  cell  in  Birmingham,  Alabama, 

 
Dr.  Martin  Luther  King  was  appealing  to 

 
a  law  above  the  law  of  the  culture,  the 

 
law  of  the  land.  And  I  think  that  makes 

 
a  ton  of  sense  if  all  of  us  here  are 

 
willing  to  think  about  it.  Guess  what, 

 
guys?  The  only  way  there  can  be  a  law 

 
above  the  cultural  law  is  if  there  is 

 
some  type  of  God  who  creates  and  defines 

 
that  value  of  justice  that  that  law 

 
expresses.  So  what  you're  saying  is  that 

 
by  using  my  conscience,  I'm  somehow 

 
going  to  arrive  at  this  natural  law. 

 
Correct.  And  how  is  that  different  from 

 
saying  that  is  simply  my  reason 

 
dictating  what  it  what  I  decided  to  be 

 
just  and  not  necessarily  written  by  God? 

 
Well,  you  can  do  that.  But  I  don't  think 

 
you  can  live  it  out  because  if  you're 

 
going to  live  out  what  you  say  you 

 
believe,  you're  going  to  have  to 

 
acknowledge  that  if  I  steal  his  backpack 

 
or  if  I  make  a  racial  slur  against  you, 

 
that's  not  wrong  in  any  absolute  sense. 

 
Maybe  it's  wrong  from  your  perspective, 

 
but  obviously  from  my  perspective,  it's 

 
right.  So  your  moral  relativism 

 
crosses  you  out  of  the  picture  when  it 

 
comes  to  making  an  objective  moral 

 
decision  because  everything's  relative. 

 
I  would  agree  that  what  you  did  is  wrong 

 
and  I  would  agree  that  from  your 

 
perspective,  what  you  did  might  be 

 
entirely  right,  but  that's  not  going  to 

 
stop  me  from  punishing  you  because  that 

 
is  what  I  believe  is  right  and  I'm  going 

 
to  fight  for  my  beliefs.  But  if  it's 

 
relative,  why  are  you  going  to  fight  for 

 
your  beliefs?  Because  that  is  what  my 

 
belief  is.  If  it's  relative,  it's  not 

 
real.  Okay,  relative.  Why  would  you 

 
fight  for  something  that's  not  real?  Why 

 
would  you  claim  that  just  because  it's 

 
relative,  it's  not  real?  Because  that's 

 
the  definition.  The  definition  of 

 
relative  is  it's  not  real.  It's  simply  a 

 
personal  prejudice  ethic.  Relativity 

 
means  that  what  can  be  true  for  me  can 

 
be  equally  true  for  you.  It's  not  true. 

 
Yes,  it  is.  It  is  not  true.  Have  you 

 
taken  a  modern  physics  class  recently, 

 
by  the  way?  Just  wondering.  You  cannot 

 
say  that  it's  not  true  if  you  believe 

 
that  it's  relative. 

 
In  the  area  of  ethics  and  morals,  if 

 
you're  going  to  say  it's  relative,  then 

 
you  can't  say  it's  really  true  or  really 

 
false.  You  have  to  say  from  my 

 
perspective,  it's  true  or  false.  But  my 

 
perspective  is  just  my  own  personal 

 
prejudice  and  bias,  my  own  cultural 

 
prejudice.  You  cannot  say  if  you're  a 

 
relativist,  it's  really  evil  that  a 

 
young  child  be  abused. 

 
and  I'm  sayingist 

 
not  entirely  true.  I  have  formulated 

 
using  my  own  thoughts  a  belief  system 

 
that  I  believe  will  lead  to  just  justice 

 
and  whatnot  and  I  will  follow  said 

 
belief  regardless  of  what  your 

 
perspective  is.  Yeah.  And  your 

 
perspective  if  you  believe  what  you  say 

 
is  it's  all  relative.  Justice  is  totally 

 
relative.  Well,  if  justice  is  totally 

 
relative,  why  on  earth  are  you  going  to 

 
enforce  your  definition  of  justice  upon 

 
other  people  who  disagree  with  you? 

 
Because  from  my  perspective,  you  are 

 
unjust.  Yeah,  but  if  you  believe  that's 

 
relative,  that  justice  is  relative.  What 

 
where  do  you  get  off  being  so  arrogant 

 
as  to  enforce  your  definition  of  justice 

 
on  me?  Because  I  am  confident  in  my 

 
belief  that  what  I  believe  is  to  be  the 

 
correct  belief.  You're  a  confident, 

 
arrogant  twit,  then.  Yes,  I  am  arrogant. 

 
Everything  you  do  is  based  on  arrogance. 

 
If  you  do,  absolutely  not.  All right.  If 

 
you  are  convinced  that  God  created  this 

 
man  with  dignity  and  value,  then  you 

 
have  a  basis  for  understanding  that  to 

 
murder  him,  to  steal  from  him  is 

 
absolutely  wrong.  It  has  nothing  to  do 

 
with  me.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  my 

 
opinion.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  my 

 
culture  or  my  cultural  superiority. 

 
Nothing.  Nothing.  Nothing.  It  is  totally 

 
wrapped  up  in  the  fact  that  he  has 

 
innate  value.  He  has  inate  dignity  and 

 
therefore  I  am  responsible  to  respect 

 
him  not  to  denigrate  him.  Go  ahead  and 

 
define  dignity  for  me.  If  you're  a 

 
relativist,  why  are  you  wasting  your 

 
time  talking  to  me?  And  if  by  reason  I 

 
can  argue  and  convince  the  other  person 

 
to  share  my  perspective.  Fine. 

 
But  if  they  don't  choose  to  share  your 

 
perspective,  they're  not  wrong.  You're 

 
not  right  cuz  it's  all  relative.  They 

 
think  they're  not  wrong.  I  think  they're 

 
wrong.  Yeah.  Yeah,  but  you  are 

 
enlightened  enough  to  acknowledge  that 

 
everything  is  relative.  So  because 

 
you're  so  intelligent  that  you  realize 

 
that  everything  is  relative,  you 

 
understand  that  ultimately  nobody's 

 
right  and  nobody's  wrong.  It's  all 

 
relative.  Which  is  also  why  nobody's 

 
going  to  go  to  hell  or  heaven  because  of 

 
what  they  do.  But  as  long  as  I'm  alive, 

 
I'm  going  to  live  the  way  I  deem  right. 

 
Okay,  good.  I've  always  felt  isn't  God's 

 
love  actually  pretty  conditional?  No. 

 
like  on  on  you  behaving  a  certain  way  or 

 
particularly  not  behaving  certain  ways 

 
that  some  would  view  as  not  immoral  such 

 
as  being  gay  but  God  may  view  as  you 

 
know  not  worthy  of  salvation. 

 
Nobody  is  worthy  of  salvation.  I  am  not 

 
worthy  of  salvation. 

 
That's  what  sets  Jesus  Christ  apart  from 

 
every  other  major  world  religion.  Every 

 
major  world  religion  says  get  your  act 

 
together  and  be  worthy  of  salvation.  And 

 
Jesus  Christ  says,  "You're  never  going 

 
to  be  worthy  of  salvation  because  you've 

 
sinned."  Now,  grace  is  God's  undeserved, 

 
unconditional  love,  offer  of  forgiveness 

 
for  whatever  it  is  that  I've  done  wrong. 

 
Now,  if  I  reject  that  offer  of 

 
forgiveness  because  God  created  the 

 
universe  and  is  the  ultimate  judge,  he's 

 
going  to  hold  me  responsible  for  the 

 
wrong  that  I've  done. 

 
That's  why  if  I  reject  Christ,  I  will  be 

 
judged  by  God  for  the  wrong  that  I've 

 
done  and  I  will  go  to  hell  and 

 
experience  separation  from  God.  But  if  I 

 
humble  myself  and  acknowledge,  yes,  I 

 
have  done  wrong.  Have  mercy  on  me,  a 

 
sinner.  He  promises  to  forgive  me.  For 

 
God  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his 

 
only  son  that  whoever,  not  the  good 

 
people,  not  the  better  people,  not  the 

 
morally  superior  people,  whoever 

 
believes  in  him  should  not  perish  but 

 
have  eternal  life.  Does  that  make  sense? 

 
Yes.  What's  the  problem  with  it?  I'm 

 
wondering  specifically  on  the  issue  of 

 
sexuality  because  I  think  most  people 

 
would  not  feel  as  though  they  have  done 

 
wrong.  But  is  that  ignorance?  I  believe. 

 
Okay.  I'm  a  heterosexual  male  and  I  have 

 
sinned  in  the  area  of  sexuality. 

 
What  is  sin?  Sin  is  redefining  the 

 
purpose  that  God  created  me  for.  And 

 
specifically,  you're  raising  the  issue 

 
of  sexuality.  Well,  I  have  redefined  the 

 
purpose  for  which  God  gave  me  sexuality. 

 
I  have  lusted. 

 
And  Christ  says  that's  wrong.  Why  is 

 
that  wrong?  because  it's  dehumanizing  a 

 
woman  who's  created  in  the  image  of  God. 

 
That  is  why  I  have  to  ask  forgiveness 

 
for  my  sexual  immorality  which  happens 

 
to  be  heterosexual  lust.  But  there  are 

 
many  different  forms  of  sexual 

 
immorality. 

 
And  if  I've  committed  a  sin,  I  need  to 

 
be  honest  with  myself,  honest  with  God, 

 
and  ask  him  for  forgiveness  for  the 

 
wrong  that  I  have  done. 

 
Does  that  make  any  sense?  Makes  sense. 

 
Yeah. 

 
What  do  you  think  about  Christ? 

 
Um,  I  don't  have  many  thoughts  about 

 
Christ.  Uh,  I  am  a  member  of  another 

 
religion  which  I'd  probably  rather  not 

 
actually  share  because  I  feel  like  it 

 
invites  judgment.  But,  um,  I  think  me 

 
and  you  would  disagree  on  where  the  line 

 
is  between  immorality  sexually.  I  think 

 
people  have  other  sexualities  and  they 

 
do  espouse  and  experience  love  in  the 

 
maybe  the  way  God  created  them  to  do. 

 
It's  just  slightly  different.  Right.  All 

 
right.  First  point, 

 
whatever  religion  you  are,  I  have  no 

 
option  as  a  follow  of  Christ  but  to 

 
respect  you. 

 
Whatever  religion  you  are,  as  a  follower 

 
of  Christ,  I  have  no  option  but  to  love 

 
you.  Now,  sir,  if  you  are  convinced  that 

 
I'm  going  in  the  wrong  direction  and  you 

 
claim  to  love  me,  I  hope  you  will  inform 

 
me,  Cliff,  you're  going  in  the  wrong 

 
direction.  Watch  out. 

 
There's  a  crash  at  the  end  of  this 

 
highway.  Don't  go  there. 

 
So,  because  I  respect  you,  I'm 

 
interested,  genuinely  interested  in 

 
finding  out  what  you  believe  and  then 

 
asking  you  what's  the  evidence  that 

 
whatever  it  is  you  believe  is  true.  And 

 
then  I  hope  you'll  ask  me,  "Okay,  Cliff, 

 
what  do  you  believe?"  And  what's  the 

 
evidence  that  whatever  it  is  you  believe 

 
is  true.  Okay?  See,  that's  I  would  argue 

 
that's  respectful,  intelligent  discourse 

 
where  we  actually  care  for  each  other 

 
instead  of  just  saying,  "Well,  I  don't 

 
care  what  you  believe."  Does  that  make 

 
sense?  Yeah.  I've  spent  most  of  my  life 

 
reading  Buddhist  philosophy.  Um,  and  I 

 
have  absolutely  no  evidence  that  it's 

 
true.  It's  more  me  trying  to  come  to 

 
terms  with  the  concept  of  of  death,  of 

 
nirvana  being  a  true  death.  On  some 

 
level,  I  hope  that  there  is  no  afterlife 

 
because  this  is  hard,  you  know.  Okay. 

 
All  I  can  say  is  thank  you  for  your 

 
honesty  and  I  respect  you  highly.  Why? 

 
Cuz  you  started  out  by  saying,  "I  follow 

 
the  Buddhist  philosophy  and  I  have  no 

 
evidence  that  it's  true."  Man,  I  wish 

 
everybody  was  that  stinking  honest,  sir. 

 
Instead,  I  got  all  these  atheists 

 
standing  out  here  saying,  "Oh,  I'm  an 

 
atheist 

 
and  that's  the  truth."  And  I'm  saying, 

 
"Fine.  So,  what's  the  truth  that  you're 

 
what's  the  evidence  that  your  atheism  is 

 
true?"  And  sir,  they  keep  on  trying  to 

 
act  like,  "Oh,  because  I've  carefully 

 
thought  this  through."  When  in  fact, 

 
it's  just  a  kneejerk  emotional  response. 

 
So,  first  of  all,  thank  you  for  your 

 
honesty. 

 
Now  secondly, 

 
don't  you  think  that  before  you  trust, 

 
don't  you  think  before  I  trust  anybody, 

 
there  should  be  evidence  of  reliability, 

 
not  proof,  but  at least  we  got  to  have 

 
some  evidence  that  we're  not  going  to 

 
get  ripped  off.  Okay,  that  this  is  true 

 
and  reliable. 

 
I  mean,  don't  you  think  that's  wise  in 

 
living  your  life?  come  twice  a  week. 

 
Okay?  So  that's  why  I  would  plead  with 

 
you  read  the  teachings  of  Sedartha 

 
Gatama  Buddha  and  ask  yourself  what's 

 
the  evidence  that  his  teachings  are  true 

 
and  then  I'm  pleading  with  you  read  the 

 
Gospels  of  Matthew,  Mark,  Luke,  and  John 

 
and  ask  yourself  what's  the  evidence 

 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  true.  Compare  and 

 
contrast. 

 
You  see  sir,  I'm  standing  here  saying 

 
I've  done  a  bit  of  studying  of  Sedartha 

 
Gutaba  Buddha  and  obviously  I  respect 

 
him  for  the  way  he  struggled  through  the 

 
problem  of  suffering. 

 
I  mean  anybody  who  claims  to  be  a 

 
thinking 

 
emotionally 

 
connected  person  who  doesn't  deal  with 

 
suffering  in  this  world  I  think  is  out 

 
the  lunch.  There's  too  much  suffering. 

 
So  I  respect  Sedartha  Gatama  Buddha  for 

 
the  way  he  really  engaged  the  issue  of 

 
suffering.  But  then  there  are  other 

 
things  he  says  that  I  mean  how  to  deal 

 
with  suffering.  It's  an  illusion.  What? 

 
Come  on.  Suffering  is  not  an  illusion. 

 
It's  real.  No.  Very  real.  It  has  a 

 
cause.  And  they  also  believe  there's  a 

 
way  out  of  it.  You  know,  a  way  to  more 

 
end  it.  Okay.  How  do  you  how  do  you  deal 

 
with  suffering?  How  do  you  think  it 

 
through?  false.  Well,  I  think  it's  on 

 
you  to  not  create  it  through  lust, 

 
desire,  or,  you  know,  selfishness. 

 
But  theoretically,  you  know,  if  you 

 
follow  the  eight-fold  path,  then  you 

 
will  move  further  up  in  the  chain  of 

 
reincarnation  and  eventually  you  get  to 

 
die.  And  that's  that's  a  privilege. 

 
Okay.  So,  right  there,  I've  got,  you 

 
know,  some  questions.  Why  is  death  a 

 
privilege?  Because  life  is  hard.  Because 

 
life  is  hard.  Okay.  Now,  from  my 

 
perspective,  you're  right.  Life  is  hard. 

 
I  agree  with  that.  But  life  is  also  a 

 
blast.  Oh,  yeah.  And  I'm  real  glad  that 

 
you  and  I  are  able  to  have  this 

 
conversation  right  now.  I'm  real  glad 

 
that  one  of  us  is  not  dead. 

 
I  celebrate  life.  And  I  think  that  if 

 
you  look  at  your  experience,  you  do 

 
celebrate  life. 

 
That's  why  I  have  such  a  hard  time 

 
accepting  Buddhism  because  I  don't  think 

 
that  the  goal  is  death.  There's  a  lot  of 

 
homies.  Yeah.  I  mean,  I  think  if  if  if 

 
you  or  I  get  hurt  really  badly.  Oh, 

 
yeah.  We're  going  to  get  the  ambulance, 

 
right?  We're  going  to  get  the  best 

 
doctor  we  can 

 
to  keep  us  alive, 

 
right?  We  affirm  life. 

 
All right.  Jesus  Christ  affirms  life 

 
like  nobody  else.  He  says,  "God  gave  you 

 
life.  I'm  the  God  who  gave  you  life.  I 

 
love  you.  I  have  a  purpose  for  your  life 

 
now,  but  I  also  have  eternal  life.  And 

 
that's  why  I  love  1  Corinthians  15  where 

 
Paul  writes,  "Death  is  the  last  enemy." 

 
It's  not  good.  It's  not  cool.  It's  the 

 
last  enemy. 

 
Because  life  is  good 

 
in  spite  of  the  hardship  that  you  and  I 

 
experience.  Is  there  any  hardship  in 

 
eternal  life  in  heaven  at  all?  Nope. 

 
Yeah.  No  hardship  in  heaven.  Why? 

 
Because  God  is  good.  And  because  God  is 

 
good,  he  guarantees  there  will  be  no 

 
hardship  in  heaven.  Lots  of  hardship 

 
today  in  this  life.  No  question  about 

 
it. 

 
And  I  would  think  that  because  you  are  a 

 
sensitive,  thoughtful  guy,  you  would 

 
really  take  a  hard  look  at  Jesus  because 

 
of  the  way  he  suffered.  He  didn't  evade 

 
suffering, 

 
right?  He  got  in  with  people  who  were 

 
suffering.  He  got  down  and  dirty.  And 

 
then  he  provides  the  ultimate  solution 

 
for  suffering,  forgiveness  and  eternal 

 
life  in  heaven.  Well,  there  will  be  no 

 
more  suffering. 

 
And  that's  why  when  I  go  to  a  hospital 

 
and  I  sit  beside  the  bed  of  a  dying 

 
person,  yes,  I  seek  to  hold  that  child's 

 
hand  and  comfort  that  child.  But  in 

 
Jesus  Christ,  I  have  a  suffering  God  who 

 
provides  the  ultimate  solution  for 

 
suffering,  forgiveness,  and  eternal  life 

 
in  heaven.  That  make  any  sense?  Yeah, 

 
definitely.  who  defines  sin  and  goodness 

 
and  justice.  And  I  would  argue  that  if 

 
it's  you  who  define  it  and  or  I  who 

 
define  it,  then  it  is  relative.  And  if 

 
he  defines  it  his  way  and  you  define  it 

 
your  way  and  I  define  it  my  way,  it  is 

 
relative.  And  I'm  convinced  from  looking 

 
at  the  abuse  of  an  innocent  child  that 

 
there  are  some  objective  morals.  And  I 

 
dare  say  you  would  agree  with  that. 

 
Right.  Okay.  Well,  if  there  are 

 
objective  moral  standards,  there's  got 

 
to  be  some  type  of  mind  prior  to  the 

 
human  mind  that  creates  and  defines 

 
those  standards. 

 
That  would  be  God.  Whoever  God  is.  I  can 

 
see  that.  You  can  see  that.  Okay.  Good. 

 
Now,  Jesus  Christ  claimed  to  be 

 
revealing  this  God,  this  intelligent 

 
mind,  this  just  creator 

 
in  a  way  that  you  and  I  as  personal 

 
beings  can  connect  with.  Now,  obviously, 

 
he's  either  full  of  it,  an  egoomaniac, 

 
or  else  he's  true.  God  revealing  himself 

 
in  finite  form  in  the  person  of  Jesus 

 
Christ.  And  that's  why  I  think  it's  so 

 
important  for  you  to  read  the  Gospels 

 
for  yourself  and  ask  yourself,  does  the 

 
evidence  point  to  Christ  being  a  quack? 

 
If  it  does,  reject  him.  Or  does  the 

 
evidence  point  to  Christ  being  the 

 
truth?  If  it  does,  put  your  faith  in 

 
him. 

 
Does  that  make  any  sense?  Yeah, 

 
definitely.  Well,  it's  a  real  honor 

 
talking  with  you,  sir,  and  thank  you  so 

 
much  for  your  honesty  and  uh  and 

 
vulnerability.  I  appreciate  that  a  lot. 

 
[Music] 

