Why Christianity over other religions?
Maybe this makes me immoral in your
eyes. But I would rather burn in hell
than kill my own substance. Oo, now I
think we're on to something here. And I
didn't feel anything when I was a
Christian, so I turned away from it.
What on earth were you waiting to feel
as a Christian? God's love. Does anyone
else from other faiths like do this?
Like the fact that it's always
Christians is kind of like it's kind of
a red flag and I think it just kind of
puts you guys. These are Cliff Candley's
most powerful debates. Over an hour of
bold questions, intense arguments, and
raw moments of truth. From atheists to
ex-Christians, they come ready to
challenge everything. Morality, the
Bible, even Jesus himself. If you've
ever wrestled with faith or doubt, this
is the compilation you can't miss. Which
one was your favorite? Let us know in
the comments. Now, let's dive in. And
for the rest of the Old Testament, God
communicates to the Jewish people, you
are not to do what all the cultures
around you do, which is child
sacrifice. He communicates time and time
again. Not only that, God says, "I will
judge you if you sacrifice your
children." They disobeyed him. They
sacrificed their children and he judged
them. First at the hands of the
Assyrians and then the hands of the
Babylonians. So, let's not go off into
whatifs. Let's stick with the facts.
What really happened? All right, the
facts. The facts are they disobeyed God.
They sacrificed their children and they
were swept into captivity for he judged
them for it. The fact you're excusing
God's hypocrisy on this one occasion.
No, I'm not. I have repeatedly
repeatedly said to you it was a unique
event. Please understand it was a unique
event where God is testing one man
Abraham and he's saying Abraham I want
you to sacrifice your son. Clearly verse
one, Genesis 22, God tested
Abraham. It was a test of one
individual.
Okay. And you think, but then that's
moral. Then I my I guess my my moral re
my question was is does killing your
your son become moral? Does anything not
necessarily killing your son if that
indeed was a one-time proposition, but
is doing anything God tells you to do
instantly become moral because he is
commanding it? For example, I'm under
it. Me personally, I believe that if
somehow I it's it's a it's a silly
proposition. I'll grant you somehow we
were to prove life permanently and with
100% absolute certainty that God is not
real. Let's say we were to prove that
God does not exist. Yep. Christianity is
a book of fables, nothing more, right? I
do not think that you would suddenly
lose all of your morality and start
raping and murdering people in the
streets. Nor do I think maybe you would
undergo a severe crisis of faith, but I
don't think that all of the morals that
that you currently abide by, the idea
that you very passionately presented
that date rape is is wrong. I don't
think you'd suddenly waver in that in
that in that understanding if you
realized God didn't exist. And
so I guess what I'm saying is I I think
there becomes a problem if you feel the
need to to doublech check your morals
off of a higher power. It's not a
question of double-checking. It's a
question of if you are so convinced that
certain things are evil and if you're
thinking deeply, you're going to have to
ask why are those things evil? What's
the basis of something being evil? Is it
just my taste, my prejudice, my culture?
Is it just me, the individual? Is it
just a power elite have taught me? King
Arthur taught me that this is evil.
Well, I guess I guess here's my
question. because I don't believe in God
and yet I still find date rape wrong.
Where does that come from for me
personally? Can you explain why why I
feel that's wrong?
Sure. Because although you don't
acknowledge it, you're a human being
created in the likeness of God with a
conscience and a rational mind. So
here's what I want to ask. Isn't there a
bit of redundancy in that assumption?
That assumption that that God implanted
my morals on me already. I didn't have
to learn about God to know that date
rape is wrong. Right? So why do I need
to learn about him now? If he's already
implanted all my morals inside my heart,
why do I need to know about him? For
example, why why why do you need to know
about God if he's already given you all
of your morals? If he's, like you said,
given me a conscience, whether I asked
for it or not, I've got it now according
to you. So why do I why do I need to
care about God?
First point, because my conscience
convicts me that at times although I
know what's good, I do the opposite. And
that's why I experience guilt. I think
you probably have experienced guilt
maybe once or twice on your own. More
than more than once or twice. Good.
Great. Now, Jesus Christ bled and died
on a cross. He claimed to forgive you
and to forgive
me. Now, if we experience guilt, the
question is, how do we handle guilt? One
very healthy way to handle guilt is to
turn to Christ for forgiveness and to
receive God's forgiveness for the wrong
that you and I have done. Second
point, there are very few moral
absolutes. Very few. And the majority of
life is lived in the gray world. If
there is a God who's just, don't you
think it would be wise to ask him for
wisdom to make ethically responsible
decisions living in a very ethically
gray world? I wanted to ask you, in the
Ten Commandments, God lays down some
very specific moral guidelines. Yes.
Thou shalt not murder, right? Why
couldn't Why wasn't thou shalt now
enslave your fellow man included? I
don't know. Why is that not a Why is
that not something that he felt cuz he
didn't feel the need to guide people
away from murder? He didn't say you can
murder people twice every year until you
wean yourself off of it, you know?
Right? Cuz everyone loves to murder. So
just get yourself away from that little
by little like we will with slavery,
right? Why didn't he just say slaveryy's
bad? I'm God. Deal with it. You bet. I
don't know. And I really don't know why
God hasn't sent a message to American
Christians that driving Mercedes and
BMWs and having three houses is immoral
because we have the solution to the
starvation on the world on the planet.
It's wealthy people share your wealth. I
don't know why God hasn't done that. But
I can promise you sir what you need to
tell your professor or yourself or
whoever is talking to you about Exodus,
Leviticus, and Numbers in Deuteronomy is
one thing and I'm pleading with you and
I've repeated. I'm going to tell you one
more time. If you think that the Mosaic
legislation for the theocracy of Israel
is not different from the moral law
found in Exodus 20, you're making a huge
textual mistake. There's a humongous
difference between those 613 laws found
in Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and
Deuteronomy that applied to the
theocracy of Israel and the moral law of
God found in Exodus 20. And if you can't
learn to distinguish between mosaic
legislation and a moral absolute, we got
to go back and do some more homework.
No, I just wish I just wish that that
had been made more clear, I suppose,
because So do I. You know, I wish I'd
understand that better 25 years ago when
I first spoke here. The Inquisition
Crusade didn't seem to stop them from
right misinterpreting the Bible. That's
right. Should have been laid out a
little bit clearer, I think.
Oh, really?
I love what Mark Twain said, sir. Mark
Twain said, "It's not the parts of the
Bible that don't understand that disturb
me. It's parts of the Bible I do
understand that disturb me. The Bible is
all too simple and straightforward on
the basics. Are there difficult textual
problems?" Yes. And if I think I can go
around and justify my polygamy cuz
Solomon had 700 wives and 300
concubines, I'm a con artist. You don't
have to have a PhD in the Bible to
understand polygamy ain't what God
wanted us to do.
So, okay, going based off of that, how
do you feel about the people who use the
Bible as an argument against, say, gay
marriage?
Well, I think it's real clear the Bible
clearly consistently communicates that
God created our sexuality to be enjoyed
when it comes to sexual intercourse
between one man and one woman till death
parts us. And from Genesis to
Revelation, homosexuality is
communicated as a twisting of that
beautiful gift that God gave us. And
homosexual sex is a twisting of that
gift. It's a wrong use of that gift.
Isn't that included in the same set of
laws that you were just talking about?
Yes. So, how do we determine which one
is for everyone? Homosexuality. You
answer that% wrong. You're a smart kid.
You answer that one. I when I read it
through when I read it through I'm maybe
I need to you know look harder but um it
seems a little muddled which one's I
feel like they should have a tag. This
one is for everyone for eternity and
this one's just for you guys right now.
You bet. I'll answer it for you. Okay.
Thanks. If the statement that I just
made in answer to the gay marriage issue
was based on Leviticus chapters 21 and
22. You caught me. Good thinking. But I
can promise you my view of homosexuality
has nothing to do with Leviticus,
Deuteronomy, Numbers, or Exodus. It has
to do with Genesis 1 and2. It has to do
with the entire New Testament, which
never once supports the gay lifestyle.
Instead, it communicates the opposite,
that God loves you and by his grace, he
offers you forgiveness. I guess that's
more what I was asking because I always
see Leviticus passages cited as an
argument against gay marriage.
Well, uh, then please do me a favor.
Look that person in the face and say,
"Now, wait a second. You're telling me,
if I understand correctly, that the
reason homosexuality is viewed by you as
a sin is because of
Leviticus and and wait and miss another
answer."
No, homosexuality is not a sin because
in Leviticus it says it's a sin.
No, it's a contradiction of Genesis 1
and2, the creation mandate, the purpose
for which God gives us our sexuality,
which is outlined in Genesis 1 and2, and
then throughout the rest of the
scriptures, it is communicated as the
wrong use of that precious gift of sex
that God has given
us. Great point. Thanks, Katie. And your
name is Brennan. Brennan, thanks Brennan
for raising issues. anymore.
Um I something did come to my mind when
I was listening to you talk. This is
totally jumping tracks. Oh, go bear bear
with me. I remember when you were you
were talking to her about um what's her
name, by the way? Katie. Katie. Katie.
Great. Um when you were talking to Katie
about uh Martin Luther King Jr. and
Gandhi, right? Um how you you were sort
of extolling their virtues and
everything.
Um but I just wanted to sort of tackle
some another kind of personal problem I
have and I wanted to ask you um based on
what your considerable knowledge of
God's rules and commandments and and
accepting the Lord Jesus Christ and that
is I what is it John 3:16 I am the way
the truth and the life John 14:6 John 14
yeah 14:6 right um I am the way the
truth and the life no one comes to the
father except through me isn't Gandhi
burning in hell right by that um by that
verse, the person that we should all
respect to some degree and that you that
you obviously respect. Is he not um
being wasn't he cast into the pit of
fire because he didn't believe in Jesus
Christ?
I do not know whether Gandhi is going to
heaven or hell. I don't know where
anybody's going. Why? Because I don't
know what a person decides before they
die. We can, you know, based on textual
evidence, we can make reasonable
assumptions. Correct? You can make a
reasonable assumption right now that if
God were, if I were to die right now of
embarrassment or shame or something or
nervousness and being on camera in front
of this great crowd of people and have
not in my hardest of hearts been moved
so far that I would be given the
elevator downstairs and not upstairs,
right? You could make that assumption.
I'm pretty sure you believe that about
me right now. Um, and so can we not
assume because Gandhi said several times
that while he appreciated a lot of the
of the
um, sorry, my mind's running a blank
philosophy in in the Bible that he was
not a Christian, you know, he was Hindu
and you can assume that because he was
shot and killed that he didn't have time
to change his mind at the end. So we can
assume he's burning in hell, right?
No. guilt. Okay, but you can assume I'm
burning in hell. No,
no, I would never want to assume that
about anybody. I know, but you have to
if you believe that the only way to get
to Jesus and to get to heaven, I'm
sorry, is to believe and accept Jesus
Christ as your Lord and Savior. And if
I'm telling you right now that I haven't
done that yet, that's an assumption you
can make, right? Because I know a lot of
that's I guess the big problem I have is
that I hear a lot of people say these
things. you have to accept Jesus or
you're gonna go to hell. That's the only
way to get to heaven. And then when we
ask them these questions like, "Do you
really think I'm gonna be tortured for
eternity?" They're like, "Oh, I I cannot
judge. God is the only judge of man."
But you're not judging me. You're not
sending me to hell. But some, you know,
somebody is, and you know who that
someone is, and you know why. Yeah. Do
you think there going to be people who
call themselves Christians who go to
hell? Um, you do. Do you? Do I? I don't
believe in hell, but you believe that
lots of Christians are going to hell
because lots of Christians enslave
people. Lots of Christians um rape their
wives. Lots of Christians uh actually
I'm rather impressed by the amount of
Christians that were in the abolition
movement, but a lot of Christians
enslaved people. They're going to hell
according to you, the same person,
right? No, no, I don't know. So, because
they accepted Jesus Christ and then
enslaved tons of people, they're they're
still in hell. I mean, heaven, right?
I do not know why, sir. Every follower
of Christ sins. I
sin. I don't know who a genuine follower
of Christ is. Sir, guess what? You don't
know that I'm going to heaven. Who
knows? Maybe someone's paying me a ton
of money to stand out here and speak.
It's possible. Crazy things happen.
You, my friend, have seen more than
enough Christian hypocrisy. So, you know
that we all are capable of being
incredible hypocrites. So, maybe I'm a
colossal hypocrite. It is possible. Are
you a false prophet? Maybe. God condemns
false prophets. How do I know you're not
a false prophet? Exactly. It's possible.
How can I believe in anything you're
saying to me right now that you're
Because I know you're trying to change
hearts and minds. I know that you want
every single one of us to join you in
the great vaults in the sky. I know
that. I know you want us to join the
theme. Good. But and now answer quick.
That's a great question, Brennan. If I
was to say to Brennan and Katie in
answer to your question, why should I
believe in Jesus? And I were to say,
because I do, you'd be an idiot to
believe in Jesus. Instead, what I'm
saying is go back and get the Gospels of
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Read them
for yourself separate from me. Ask
yourself, does the historical evidence
of the way Jesus taught, treated people,
died forgiving his enemies, and rose
from the dead? Does that evidence point
to Christ being trustworthy, or does it
not? Do not believe in Jesus cuz I do.
Please don't. It's a horrible reason to
believe in Jesus. Horrible. I I was in a
church for a long time. Um, and I don't
I don't buy it. So, I'm Good. Why? And
you read the Gospels. What? What? What's
your problem with Jesus? I don't want to
talk about my problems either, man.
Well, why why did you not put your faith
in him? Why did I not put my faith in
him? You read the gospels. I mean, come
on, man. You know that if if somebody
lives the kind of life he lived, you got
to respect the dude. If someone teaches
the type of ethical teachings that he
taught. I mean, Robert Kohl's psychology
professor at Harvard says all the
writings on ethics over the past 2,000
years are simply footnotes to the sermon
on the mount. I mean a guy was an
ethical genius. Thirdly, if you watch
him die nailed to and cross beam and
instead of cursing his enemies the way I
would have, he prays, "Father, forgive
them for they know not what they do."
And then if you see the three days after
he dies, he rises from the dead. Guys,
it's a
no-brainer. The guy's trustworthy. You
can believe in him. All right. So why
did you Couldn't you believe in Jesus?
Well, actually, one of my favorite
personal Christian philosophers, CS
Lewis, disagrees with you entirely.
Okay. He said he said that if Jesus a
lot of people like for example Thomas
Jefferson said I don't believe Jesus was
God but I think he's a great moral
teacher. He's ethically genius. What CS
Lewis said is no that's not true because
if he was not the true son of God then
he was a liar and a charlatan and he led
people astray. Exactly. I don't believe
that he's God. So while I agree with a
lot of the stuff he said, I can't buy
into him as a perfect manifestation of
God's existence on earth. And I find I
mean CS Lewis disputes the point you
made that like Jesus was an amazing
moral teacher because unlike for example
Socrates, we can't prove Socrates
existed either. There's no real evidence
for his existence, but we can still take
a lot of what he said to heart, right?
But the thing with Socrates is we don't
it's it's not an all or one deal. You
know, with Jesus, it's like we got to go
all in or we're going to burn. With
Socrates, it's like, well, I don't
believe that he was greater, that he was
superhuman, so I can take the little
bits that I want that I think are great.
But with Jesus, you can't you can't
choose 100%. And so, when I find little
little bit bits and pieces like you're
going to hell if you don't believe in
me, it's difficult. It's difficult to,
you know. All right, Bernard. As I
listen to you, I hear hell come up time
and time again.
What problem do you have with hell?
Give it to me. Why are you so offended
by the idea of hell?
Um, I don't believe that there should be
an eternal punishment for a mortal
crime. I don't believe that the 80 years
I'm going to spend on
life gaining not a fraction of the
knowledge that anyone never achieve on
light is worth a literal neverending
eternity burning in hell. I don't
believe there should be an infinite an
infinite uh punishment for a finite
crime. Okay. I do not buy that sir. Go
back to the text, read the text, find
out where does the Bible give us a
photograph of hell. Now, does Jesus in
the Bible describe hell in horrible
terms? Obviously, yes. I'm going with
him, but I'm no question about it. But
now, come on now. Why is there a hell? I
wanted to I wanted to do something. She
She has a question. I just wanted to get
really out really quick. It's even less
honestly, and this may this may reflect
poorly on myself. It's even less hell
that I'm interested in. I don't want to
go to heaven. I don't want the idea of
living forever. You know, that really
disturbs me. The idea of never of
existing for eternity and never
stopping, especially living in a place
where the only descriptions thereof or
that we're supposed to be praising God
on high for eternity. That's not the
only description. Brennan, I'm going to
be talks about serving God, working. I
love to work. Do you? You know, if I
worked on in this veil of tears for my
whole life and I get to heaven, it's
just more work. I'm going to be a little
disappointed. I'm sorry that university
gives you such a headache. Both both the
reward and the punishment don't appeal
to me. Maybe is the reason I love to
work.
I love work. And guess what? When I work
with street people, I'm going to get
them a job. Why? Cuz if you don't work,
Brennan, you're going to fall apart
psychologically. And if you don't
believe me, just go out and examine the
homeless. If they don't have a job, if
they don't work, they tend to fall
apart. It seems that God created us to
work. And in heaven, we will be working.
At heaven, we will also be relating.
Guess what? I really love my wife. I
really love my boys. And as weird as
this might seem,
Brennan, I love you. That's why I'm
standing here talking with you. So, I
would love to be able to talk with you
and get to know you throughout eternity
in heaven. Heaven is all about
relationship. That's why Jesus says in
John 17:3, "This is eternal life that
men might know you, the only true God
and Jesus Christ whom you sent." So
heaven is all about relationship. It's
all about work. Creativity. You express
your creativity in work. I express my
creativity in work. That's
good. Come on, guys. Are you really here
just to make more money? Is that what
you're here all about? Come on, guys.
Think.
think there's got to be more to life
than just positioning yourself to make
more money. Nothing wrong with money,
but there's got to be more to your life
and your work than just making money.
You got to enjoy serving people,
producing a product to help people. That
is good. Work is a gift from God. So
you're saying that everyone Jews who
don't believe that Jesus was like a
prophet and that people who believe that
Muhammad was the prophet, you're saying
that they're wrong. That's a pretty bold
statement. Okay,
sir. If the atheist speaks the truth, I
am wrong. If the Muslim speaks the
truth, if Muhammad spoke the truth, I am
wrong. If Sedartha Katama Buddha spoke
the truth, I am wrong.
Right. Sure. Okay. If Jesus Christ spoke
the truth, then I'm going to heaven
because he promised eternal life to all
who trusted in him. So, sir, let's be
real honest. Pardon? Do you trust Jesus?
I trust Jesus.
But sir, let's be real honest. Every
time anybody makes a truth claim, I
don't care if you're an atheist, a
Hindu, a Muslim, a Christian, a
Jew, that means whatever contradicts
that truth claim is
wrong. So obviously then the question
becomes, who are you going to trust to
tell you the truth about God? Who are
you going to trust to tell you the truth
about heaven? Who are you going to trust
to tell you the truth about the way to
heaven? And I'm standing here saying the
reason that I think it's wise to trust
Jesus Christ is because the historical
evidence of the way he lived, the
content of his ethical teaching, Robert
Kohl's, the psychology professor at
Harvard, pointed out, all the writings
on ethics over the past 2,000 years are
simply footnotes to the sermon on the
mount. Ethical brilliance in the sermon
on the mount. And where did that come
from? From Jesus.
I'm saying before that. Like you could
trace ethical like beliefs in
Christianity to like Egyptian beliefs
and that you could trace to other
beliefs. Yes. And I mean you've only
shown me that this consistency within
people not within religions. And I mean
I asked my question again like why
Christianity over other religions? Well
first point is I don't put my faith in
Christianity. Christianity has been used
to justify the Crusades, the
Inquisition, the Salem Witch Trials. All
right. I put my faith in Jesus Christ.
Christianity has been used to justify
slavery in the United States. I would
never put my faith in Christianity. All
right? Tons of problems with
Christianity. Jesus Christ is different.
He's reliable. His sinless life, his
amazing ethical teachings, his death on
a cross, forgiving his enemies, and his
resurrection from the dead convinces me
he's reliable. I can promise you, sir,
if you die and rise from the dead, I
will listen very carefully to everything
you have to say. So that's why I trust
Jesus. I mean, but other religions have
miraculous like miracles that have
happened that make them believe that. If
if you were a Muslim, you would be just
as like convinced that Muhammad was a
prophet. Just as convinced. And you'd be
telling me that Muhammad is the truth
and that he had the truth and not Jesus.
Jesus was wrong. Everyone before
Muhammad's wrong. Okay. So now you and I
are going to try and be objective in our
search for truth. Which means
we aim towards that. I hope I hope
you're being taught here at this fine
university to try and be as objective as
you can. So, you've given every religion
an equal chance.
That would be objective. I could not
disagree with you more. I used to be
impressed with that line of thinking.
It's impossible to do what you just
said. And you see, what you just said, I
think, doesn't show open-mindedness.
Quite to the contrary, it shows cynicism
towards truth. Obviously, there's no way
that any one of us can study every
philosophy, every worldview, and every
religion equally. That's impossible. You
could try it. It's
impossible. You don't have that many
hours in a day to study every
philosophy, every religion, every world
view. You had better look out there and
say, "Okay, what has the ring of truth?
What seems to be plausible? What seems
to be reasonable?" And then you better
go after the options. And if someone
presents you an option that's better
than yours, you better be willing to
change. And I better be willing to
change.
So be careful of that line of thinking
because it's prevalent in our culture.
But it doesn't show, I don't think, a
real open-mindedness. Instead, it says,
and I'm not really going to try cuz I
can't obviously study every philosophy
and every religion equally. There's no
way you could do that. You only need to
study two, though. You only need to
study two. What are the two? So I'm
saying everyone says that their religion
is right. So you only need to study two
religions to show that either one of
them is wrong because you said that like
the whole contradiction thing. Yeah.
Good. So you bet. So I got Muslim
friends. Okay. Okay. So you bet. If I
claim to love my Muslim friend, I better
read the
Quran. And I better seek to understand
why is my friend a Muslim. I've got
atheist friends. So you're right. I
better listen very carefully to why my
friends are atheists if I claim to love
them. And that's what I try and do. And
so, sir, I'll tell you exactly why I'm
not a Muslim. I'll tell you exactly why
I'm not an atheist. I'll tell you
exactly why I'm a Christian, a follower
of Jesus Christ. Because I have friends
in these different belief
systems. All right, I'll tell you
exactly. The majority of my friends are
materialists. The majority of my friends
live for money. And I can promise you,
sir, my friends are good at it. My
friends are in Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan,
Wall Street, and I promise you, sir,
they are good at it. I am convinced to
put your faith ultimately in
materialism, in making money is an
incredibly empty life. Are there perks?
Oh, yes, there are. Are there benefits?
Yes, there are. Am I saying that money
is evil? No. Money is good. The Bible
teaches that repeatedly. But to live for
money, which is what the majority of my
friends live for, Wow.
What a mistake.
I never got your name. I'm Cliff. Cliff.
Good to meet you. Cliff, I I'm sorry,
but I still don't feel that you've
answered my question. All right. Sorry.
What's your question? Why Christianity
over other religions? Because the
evidence is Jesus Christ is reliable in
a way that none of the options are. So,
Muhammad isn't reliable. Not in the same
way that Jesus is correct. I have
respect for Muhammad. He taught one of
his five pillars. Give arms to the poor.
I respect that highly. So, I respect
that part of what he taught. But to
trust Muhammad to give me the truth
about God in light of the way he lived
his life, in light of the internal
contradictions in the Quran, I could
never do that. I'd have to part company
with my brain. I can't do that. So you
can't have a brain and believe in
Muhammad. I
personally am convinced that there are
so many logical inconsistencies in what
Muhammad taught that for me to follow
him would be I'd have to cut off my
mind. Like what? Like what? All right.
Muhammad lived from 570 to about 632 AD.
So obviously he never met Jesus, right?
He lives 500 years after more than 500
years, right? But the eyewitnesses,
those who met Jesus, Matthew, Mark,
John, Peter, James, insisted Jesus
claimed to be God. Now Muhammad has a
great deal of respect for Jesus. But he
says Jesus is just a good teacher. He
denies his deity. That's impossible.
That's the one option about Jesus you
can't take. Because clearly Jesus
claimed to be God which means he's
either a false teacher or else he is who
he claimed to be. He's not this middle
ground option that Muhammad chose which
is wow great teacher great prophet from
God. No cuz Jesus claimed to be God.
He's either a blasphemer or else he
spoke the truth. So there's an internal
contradiction. You know it's who is
Jesus? Just a good prophet the way
Muhammad taught or God. Now, because
Muhammad never met Christ, I'm not going
to trust him to be my primary source of
information. I'm going to go to the
eyewitness. I think you would do the
same. So, Jesus had no contradictions in
anything he ever said. And none of the
Bible has any contradiction at all. I
don't know. I've only like read I've
only read no contradiction in the Bible.
Zero. And in what Jesus said,
you know, there are there are textual
problems in the Bible. What does that
mean? That
means the New Testament that we have
today in English is based on over 5,200
Greek
manuscripts, which means we have an
incredibly high degree of certainty that
we really have what the authors wrote.
But there are varants in those
manuscripts. For instance, Matthew
chapter
1. In some of the Greek manuscripts,
it's stated once, Jesus was the son of
Mary, a virgin. But in other Greek
manuscripts, twice in Matthew chapter 1,
you've got Jesus was the son of Mary who
was a virgin. So, you obviously have
manuscript varants. and Bartman, head of
the religion perform department down at
UNCC Chapel Hill. I I got to debate him
about 20 years ago and he just put out
that best-selling book that a lot of
people have bought that says uh you know
there over 400,000 manuscript
variations. But you see the point he
doesn't say is but they are so small
they don't change anything but there are
variations in the manuscripts. So we got
to be you know honest about that. And so
going back to my original question of
why not other religions, you've just
shown me that Christianity has these
variance and textual problems. And so
wouldn't that lead you away from
Christianity? No. No. Because there's no
contradiction. There's no the
differences are so small as to be
totally inconsequential.
See what's the Well, what truth changes
between one Greek manuscript that says
once Jesus was a son of a Virgin Mary
versus another Greek manuscript that
says says it twice? I mean, it doesn't
change anything.
So, there's this is no contradiction to
the Bible. Well, I cannot Here's the
good news for you. I've been speaking on
this university campuses for 32 years.
And I've had religion professors,
philosophy professors, students,
brilliant students far more intelligent
than I'll ever be, tell me about all the
contradictions in the
Bible. They haven't hit one yet.
So there's no contradiction in the
Bible. So just say I I want to be sure.
I don't want to I don't want to read the
Bible today and find one that I think is
the contradiction. Good. Because
according to you, I'd be wrong, but I'd
be confused. But let's let's clarify
something. I'm going to talk to my wife
later tonight up in She's up in
Connecticut. I'm going to say to her, "I
spoke to a very articulate young man who
had a bike today." That's right.
Later in the conversation, I'm going to
say, "Honey, I spoke to over 100 people
today." That's not a contradiction,
right?
No, cuz I'm included in one of those.
Exactly. So, you'll have So, I debate
religion professors at times and they'll
say, "Well, one gospel says there was
one angel at an empty tomb. Another
gospel says there were two angels.
There's a contradiction." Uh-uh. If one
gospel said there was only one angel at
the empty tomb and another gospel said
there were two, three, four, or five,
then you'd have a
contradiction. It is not a contradiction
for me to
say I spoke to one man, I spoke to over
100 people cuz my perspective at one
point, yes, I was speaking to one
gentleman and obviously I did speak to
over 100 people. So you have different
perspective. It's like this. You see
this is really confus I don't know why
some people more far more intelligent
than me don't get it. You and I standing
on the street corner down there in
Guadalupe. We see two cars come
together. We hear hear a woman scream
and there's a screech of brakes and
there's a collision. So the police call
us into the office and say, "What'd you
say?" And you say, "Well, officer, I saw
these two cars coming down the street. I
heard a screech of brakes and there was
a collision." I say, "Officer, I saw the
two cars coming down the street. I heard
a woman scream and there was a
collision." Are we contradicting each
other? No. You're giving, we're giving
two different but equally valid
perspectives. There was a screech of
brakes. There was a woman screaming and
there was a collision. You include one
detail that I don't include. I include
one detail you don't include. It's not a
contradiction. So, yes, sir. You have
that in the gospels. You have different
perspectives on Jesus. So, it's not as
cleancut as you made it seem at first.
I I I guess I guess I would argue it is
cleancut. Okay. I would guess what? Why?
I would argue if all the gospels said
the exact same thing, I'd be really
unimpressed. Yeah. Because they all
copied off each other. They're just
carbon copies. And I wouldn't be very
impressed. I love the fact that there
are differences in the Gospels,
different perspectives. That's what I
want when I'm studying history. I want
different perspectives.
And I love how like energetic you are
and like how passionate you're about
this. But I feel like a Muslim would be
just as passionate about his good. And
that is why if you believe in Jesus
Christ because I'm passionate, you're a
fool. You're absolutely right for you to
believe in Jesus because I'm a
passionate follower of Christ. Not a
good reason. Cuz you're absolutely
right. I could be a passionate atheist,
a passionate materialist, a passionate
Muslim. Just because someone's
passionate, see, not only that, just
because someone's sincere doesn't make
their belief true. Right. It's a great
point you bring up. If I sincerely
believe in thin ice, when I walk out on
that ice, what's going to happen?
I'm going through, right? If it's thin,
if it's thin, if if I have sincere faith
in thin ice, when I walk out on that
thin ice, baby, I'm going through. I
don't care how deep my faith is. I don't
care how sincere my faith is. So, what
that tells me is the validity of faith
is not determined by its passion or its
sincerity. It's determined by the
credibility of the object that you
believe in. So in other words, if I have
a little bit of faith in thick ice, I
walk out in that thick ice, I'm cool.
I'm not going through because the object
of my faith is reliable. So you're
absolutely right. For you to believe in
Jesus cuz I'm passionate would be a
foolish decision. You've got to read the
New Testament Gospels, study it
yourself, and ask yourself, does the
evidence of the way he lived, taught,
died, and rose from the dead point to
his credibility, or does it not? I I
you're right. And and I guess my point I
was trying to make is that a Muslim
would say that they're consistent and
that they're more credible than
Christianity. Good. And that's why you
got to read the Quran. Any any religion
exactly says that they're the most
credible. Correct. And that's why you
got to read it. You got to read it.
Okay. So that's that's my next step.
read all the I can't I can't read
everything. Okay, you can't. So, take
the ones that you think are serious
options that have some degree of
credibility and pray. Lord God, whoever
you are, I want to know you. If you're
there, be open. Be willing and then go
look for him. Where do I start? Well,
obviously you know where I'd like you to
start. I'd like you to read the Gospels,
not as the word of God. Okay? You don't
believe that. So, forget that. Just
simply read the Gospels as history.
What? How do you know? I don't believe
that. Well, if you do, fine. But I'd be
surprised based on your line of thinking
so far. But if you do, great. And and
just read the Gospels and ask yourself,
does the evidence point to them being
reli Jesus being reliable or not? And I
won't find any contradictions. Of
course, you'll find plenty of
contradictions with your lifestyle.
That's what I find when I read. That's a
personal attack. Amen. Well, but except
that you're right. Except I said that's
that's true of me. Okay, we're both in
the same
boat. You see, I love an indefinite God
because an indefinite moral God allows
me to do whatever I want to do. I am
offended by a definite authoritative God
because that means I got to change and I
don't want to change. So there's the
contradiction. The contradiction between
me and Jesus is I don't want to live the
kind of life he says calls me to live.
You don't want to live Jesus's life.
I I I like being selfish. It comes very
naturally.
I like being
greedy. There's a there's a big part of
me that does not want to give my money
away. And that's why, to be honest with
you,
sir, I don't know that I have given
enough
away. I'm not sure that when I get to
heaven, I'm not going to hear from
Jesus. You know, Cliff, you were blinded
by all the materialism around you in
your culture, and you kind of bought
into it too much. Now, I try to give
away, okay? I try to obey Jesus, and I
try to give away, but I'm not sure that
I haven't rationalized a lifestyle that
is too opulent. It's too much taking
care of me and mine and not generous
enough to God's unfed children.
And you see that that bugs
me. See, that'd be a very good reason
for me not to believe in
Jesus. So, that's the contradiction. And
I don't know you, but I I can almost
guarantee you because you're a fellow
sinner like I am, that's going to be the
hard part. I'm a sinner. Mhm.
I don't know. Poor Jesus says we all are
sinners. And I've only met one student
at MIT who claimed to be perfect. Now,
if you want to be the second one, go
right ahead and claim to be morally
perfect. But I can I promise you all of
his MIT classmates burst into laughter
cuz we know we're not perfect morally.
We experience guilt. We know we've done
wrong at times. I certainly have. While
I can believe that Jesus was an existing
human being, right? I don't believe that
he is a god. Okay. Why? Because I don't
believe that what he might or might not
have done was supernatural.
But if he rose from the dead, wouldn't
you call that supernatural? I don't
believe he rose from the dead. Okay.
Why? Uh, you're a religious studies
major. So, what do you believe about
Jesus? I believe he was a historical
figure. Why? Because I'm going to grant
you the assumption that everything in
the Bible is true. Well, if everything
in the Bible is true, the Bible records
the resurrection of Christ. Okay. Then
even then, if I believe that, then I can
believe in other
miracles. But I still don't believe that
that is like the one true religion
because it's about as convincing as
other religions. Okay. Hey, what's so
convincing about Islam? It's not the
same way Christianity is not. Well, if
Jesus rose from the dead, the evidence
is he's reliable. I mean, if you die and
rise from the dead, I promise to listen
very closely to everything you have to
say because the evidence is you're
reliable. So, if Jesus Christ really
historically rose from the dead, the
evidence is he's reliable. You can trust
it. Then, wouldn't winged horses have
flown down in Islam?
No,
there's no record in the Gospels of
winged horses.
The historical record is that Jesus rose
from the dead.
Okay, then why wouldn't you not give
that same assumption to other religions?
Well, you better believe. I better be
open. I better read the Quran. I better
read the
Bavagita. And then I better first
ascertain, are they making an historical
claim? Obviously, the Vadas and
Upupanads are not. They're obviously
communicating truth through mythology,
which is fine, but they're not making an
historical claim. Obviously, the Quran
is making an historical claim. Muhammad
really lived, and I think the evidence
is that's correct. Muhammad was a real
historical person. Now, I got to read
about how did Muhammad live his life?
How did he treat people? What did he
teach? And then I got to figure out,
does the evidence point to Muhammad
being reliable or does it not? I got to
do the same thing with the Gospels. I
got to read about Jesus, how he treated
people, what he taught, how he died, how
he rose from the dead, and I got to
decide, does the evidence point to Jesus
being reliable, or does it not? So, what
do you think? So, you only believe in it
through the process of elimination, like
a multiple choice test. You've
eliminated Islam, you've eliminated
Hinduism, you've eliminated cowism. No,
I look for the evidence that supports
Muhammad, Sedartha, Gatama Buddha, the
avartas of Hinduism, Shirley Mlan,
Joseph Smith, Jesus Christ, and the
evidence is that Christ lived the type
of life that in my best moments I would
wish I could live, but I haven't. The
evidence is he taught amazing ethical
teachings, incredible. The evidence is
he died loving and forgiving his enemies
from a cross where he was crucified. And
the evidence is that three days after he
died, he rose from the dead. That's why
I trust him. And I have told you, I'll
tell you again, if you die and rotted
from the dead, I will listen very
closely to everything you have to say
because the evidence is you are
reliable. Does that make sense? So, do
you aim to live by his loving and kind
example? Why are you out here
intentionally belittling and
misunderstanding students? I have not
belittled anybody. I have had strong
disagreements with people. And in a
liberal arts education, we believe in a
free exchange of
ideas. Which means when we disagree, we
go at it in terms of why do you believe
what you believe? What's the evidence of
what you believe? Now, if this man tells
me he's an atheist, I respect him. I
love him. But I'm going to ask him hard
questions the same way I hope he's going
to ask me hard questions. I'm going to
ask him, "Why are you an atheist? What's
the evidence?" And if I see the evidence
is lacking for his atheism, I'm going to
point that out the same way I hope that
he's going to ask me, "Well, Cliff, why
do you believe in Jesus? What's your
evidence?" And if my evidence is
lacking, I hope he's going to point that
out to me. He's going to say, "Cliff,
that's
irrational that you believe that Jesus
rose from the dead. It's irrational."
And I'm going to say, "Okay, fine. Why
do you say it's irrational?" And if he
says because there's no historical
evidence, I'm going to say I'm sorry.
Here is the historical evidence that
Jesus did rise from the
dead. So I'm not belittling him because
we disagree. No, I tolerate him. I
respect him and we disagree.
Okay. So outside of the Bible, what is
the historical evidence that Jism was
dead?
thousands of Jewish people who were
monotheistic Jews who all of a sudden
changed and instead of worshiping on
Sabbath, Saturday, they started
worshiping on the first day of the week,
Sunday, which is a radical
departure of their Judaism, which taught
Sabbath.
And the reason they worshiped on the
first day of the week, these thousands
of Jews in the first century, is because
Jesus rose on the first day of the week.
So, I understand they're relying on
their faith. But where is the evidence
that Jesus physically rose from the
dead? People saw him. Jewish people saw
him risen from the dead. And because
they saw him risen from the dead, they
put their faith in him and they moved
from Sabbath worship to worshiping on
the first day of the week. And that is
outside of the New Testament. that
record of Jewish people worshiping on
the first day of the week in celebration
of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. I
understand that proves that people were
Christian. I understand that. But that
doesn't validate the basis of
Christianity that you're using as
evidence. Yes, it does. No, it doesn't.
They changed their habit. They saw Jesus
Christ risen from the dead. I agree that
you are saying that they said that not
me. They claimed to have seen Jesus
Christ risen from the dead and they
started worshiping on Sunday because of
that in celebration of what they saw.
The dead Christ risen from the dead.
Yes. And that's a claim which means
there's a measure of skepticism. Yeah.
Yeah. That's so how do you work with
your skepticism? Exactly. You know, I'm
a skeptic about whether you're really
here. I don't know that you're really
here. I don't know that my eyesight
tells me the truth about reality. So, I
don't know that you're really here.
Really, right about now, I got to make a
decision. Is my skepticism good or is my
skepticism hypers skepticism unhealthy?
My fist stops here because although I'm
skeptical that he might not be here, no.
The overwhelming evidence is he is here
and my fist better stop here and I
better not swing through his handsome
face. I understand. Yes, I can be
skeptical about Jesus resurrection. But
if the overwhelming evidence is people
saw him and then they were willing to
die for what they had seen, the dead
Christ risen from the dead, I can be
skeptical all day long. But I better
make a correct decision. He rose from
the dead. That's what the evidence
points to. If I met you 2,000 years from
now and he said, "Oh yeah, I saw a man
standing here with a gravy on his head."
That's not convincing for me. Okay. What
does it take to convince you?
Okay. How about a photograph of Jesus? I
I'm being sarcastic. I hate photographs.
That's why I said I'm being sarcastic.
And guess what? Do you really think that
Forest Gump met President Kennedy
because it's in a photograph? It's in a
movie. You can doctor photographs pretty
easily. So, are you sure you want to
base your eternity on a photograph? Are
you sure you want to base your eternity
on a single religion by that logic? Oh,
absolutely. Jesus lived an incredible
life. By the way, Christ has impacted
this world more than any other one
individual. So you better, if you claim
to be an educated person, read the
gospels and figure out is Christ a quack
and if he is, reject him. Or if he's the
truth, you better put your faith in him.
But you better study him because he's
influenced this world more than any
other single individual. So if you claim
to be an intellectual, if you claim to
have a brain that's working, you owe it
to yourself as a thinking person to read
those gospels, right? I have. I've
centered my major around it. I'm good.
Then why do you not believe in the
resurrection of Christ?
Because it's I don't believe in the
supernatural. It's fantastic. It doesn't
seem possible. Yeah, but that's not
historical. That's a philosophical
presupposition. Because you don't
believe there's a supernatural God.
Therefore, you believe miracles are
impossible. Therefore, the mir the
resurrection could not take place.
That's not honest history. That's a
philosophy of naturalism that limits all
of reality to matter and energy.
Exactly. Which Well, why would you adopt
that philosophy and and major in
religion?
Because as you said, Christ has impacted
this world in ways we cannot imagine. So
even though I might not believe in
Christ or believe in the book that you
are touting, I still can see the impact
on the people around me. This very
discussion shows that there's something
more important that a figure who may or
may not have lived 2,000 years ago. I
can still see the impact. I can still
see how that affects our environmental
quality. Okay, good. So you're into a
sociological study of a phenomenon
called Christianity. Exactly. Well, but
if you're honest with yourself, you've
got to acknowledge that Christianity is
not a sociological phenomenon based on a
feeling. It's a sociological phenomenon
based on an historical claim that Jesus
lived, taught, died, and rose from the
dead. And people in Africa, South
America, Asia, United States believe in
this Jesus. So, we're not talking about
nationalism or colonialism. We're
talking about people around the world
who insist that Jesus Christ has changed
their life and that he is the
truth. Pretty intense. So, I think you
got to do a little more than just, well,
because I'm a naturalist, I don't think
it happened. The resurrection, that's
not fair. You got to be open to the
supernatural. I am. That's why it's my
major. No, you're not. You said you
don't believe in the supernatural. Yes.
And I can still search for what other
people find spiritual or meaningful.
Well, why can't you be open to the
supernatural? Because I was open and I
didn't feel anything when I was a
Christian. So, I turned away from it.
What on earth were you waiting to feel
as a Christian? God's love. God's love.
So, how do you feel God's love? I don't.
That's why I'm not a Christian. Well,
why did you set this standard of unless
I feel his love, he doesn't love me? No,
that means if God is supposed to love
every individual, if I don't see any
proof in the science of faith, if I
don't see any proof in the science and I
don't see any proof beyond the science
like in human relationship,
interpersonal interaction, something
beyond the physical tangible, if I don't
feel anything beyond that, if I don't
see anything spiritual in this world,
then what reason do I have to believe?
You've never experienced the love of a
person? I've never experienced the love
of Christ. Have you ever experienced the
love of a person? Probably not. Not all.
Well, that's tragic. I'm sorry. Quantify
it without a brain scan, as you said.
Yeah. My point is, you will never be
able to x-ray love. You'll never be able
to get love on a brain scan. Why? It's
an intangible value. But your experience
of life hopefully will show you that
love is real, even though you can't get
graph it on an MRI scan or on an X-ray.
Why? Because you experience love from
others. And when you experience love
from others, you begin to understand
there's more to reality than just the
material. All right? But that still
doesn't lead me to that love being the
same as a supernatural love. Those two
things don't have to correlate. If there
is this intangible value of love, it
means there's some type of God who
creates that intangible value. No, it
doesn't. Yes, it does. How?
Because if there is no God, there is no
intangible real value of love. They're
chemicals. There's MRI scans and X-rays
and blood tests, but there's no
intangible value of love because all of
reality is matter and energy if there is
no God. But you can be atheist, not
believe in God, and still believe in
something greater than humanity. Like
what and why? Okay, love. I could
believe in love and still not connect it
to a divine being who created it. But
you cannot be an atheist and believe in
love because if you're an atheist, you
are reducing reality to matter and
energy. Okay? And love could be an
energy. We can't quantify all forms of
energy.
No, love is a free decision to care
about somebody. Love is not a free
decision. Love could be irrational.
Okay, that's where we disagree. I insist
that I do not have to love this
man. I could be
racist. I could be arrogant and look
down on him. Or I can respect him and
love him. I don't have to do either. And
there are too many examples in our
culture of people hating and being
racist toward this man. I am convinced
that none of us have to be racist. that
we can choose to freely love and respect
each other. But if we believe that we
can freely choose to love and respect
each other, it means that reality is
bigger than matter and energy. Why can't
there be multiple gods that we can
believe in? And why can't there be
multiple ways into heaven? Good. There
can be. But you see what you've got to
answer, ma'am, is why would you believe
in heaven? Have you ever been there?
Neither have I.
So in light of the fact you've never
seen heaven, why would you as a thinking
human being believe there's a heaven?
I
mean through the Christian faith is is
there not the the communication that if
you are you do live by the faith you get
and you are forgiven you go to heaven.
Yes. But ma'am my being convinced that
I'm going to heaven is based on one
thing. the trustworthiness of Jesus
Christ because I've never been to
heaven. So I don't know if there's a
heaven or not from my experience and I
can promise you Austin is not heaven.
Okay? It's a very nice place but it's
not heaven. Right? Okay. So you see
ma'am when it comes to heaven you're
going to have to trust somebody the same
way I'm going to have to trust somebody.
And the question is why do you trust
whoever it is you
trust? So because Muhammad contradicts
Jesus and because Jesus contradicts the
avatars of Hinduism and because the
avatars of Hinduism contradicts Sedartha
Gatama Buddha and because they all
contradict Bahigh
faith, you've got to be on the
intellectual level of a cockroach. If
you say they're all saying the same
thing, they're not, ma'am. They're
contradicting each other. So either
they're all wrong or one of them is
right. And now you got to study the
gospels for yourself, Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John. And you got to ask
yourself, does the evidence point to
Jesus being the truth? And if it does,
trust him. But if the evidence is that
Christ is a liar, you'd be a fool to
trust him. Do not trust Jesus. If the
evidence is he's a fraud, he's a
hypocrite, he's a liar. Don't trust him.
But if the evidence is he's totally
reliable, if the evidence is he really
did die and rise from the dead, then you
can trust him and he's the one who
promises heaven to everybody who puts
their faith in him. And here's something
that my atheist agnostic friends have to
acknowledge if they're being
intellectually consistent because they
believe there's no
heaven, no day of
judgment. That has big implications for
now,
today. And the implication is what you
and I do with our lives is ultimately
meaningless. Why? Where are Hitler and
Mother Teresa if there is no heaven and
no hell? Where are Hitler and Mother
Teresa? The same place, the fertilizer
pit. They're
decomposing. Which means ultimately it
does not matter whether you are Adolf
Hitler II or whether you're Mother
Teresa the second because we're all
going to the same place, the fertilizer
pit.
You see, Jesus says, "No, there is
eternity out there, and there's a heaven
and a hell, and there's a day of
judgment, which means the decisions that
you make
today are really
significant. They really
matter and you are really valuable
because God wants you to live for
eternity with him in
heaven. And becoming fertilizer is not
God's plan for you and desire for you.
Does that make any sense? Yeah, of
course. Thank you so much for raising
that. Yes, sir. There's been a couple
issues with things that you've been
saying that I have questions with, but
I'm just going to do a quick quick short
one. One of my one of my main questions
that I always have. Yeah. Um is just
that given what you touted earlier, a
try omniod, a omni benevolent, omni
potent, omnisient, just all powerful,
all knowing, all caring. Um how do you
explain the existence of evil and
suffering? You bet. very slowly having
to acknowledge I can't give you a
complete answer. I do not know
ultimately why God allowed evil,
suffering, and
death. But here's my first
point. If you're an atheist or if you're
an
agnostic, what is your solution to the
problem of evil and death? My solution
to the evil the solution. What is your
solution to the problem of evil and
death? If you're an atheist, if you're
an agnostic,
solution for everybody is to be as good
as possible. I mean, everybody should
aim for being good.
Um, true. According to their own
definition of good, right? Becoming own
definition good. Whether it's objective
good from God or objective good from
another source.
Well, remember the atheist or agnostic
says either there is no God or I don't
know whether there's a God. Yeah. So,
good is not defined by God if you're an
atheist. Yeah. If you're an atheist,
good is defined by your culture or by
the power elite or by yourself or by
majority opinion. It could be just
defined as good. Just good just exists.
Whether God or not?
How can good just exist?
Good. Good possibly cuz I I don't know
if there's a God or not. Mhm. Um, but I
mean if there is such a thing as a a god
that is out of time, like that is
eternal, why can't other concepts like
good just be out of time and eternal?
Just a thing that exists like God.
Okay, sir. Good is an intangible value.
You cannot see good. You can't see God
either. You Exactly. You cannot measure
good, right? You can't measure God. It
could exist eternally just like it could
just be God. It could just be God. It
could not be just God. It could just be
the existence of good and evil that just
exists in the world. But given a tri
omni God who's all powerful and all
caring, why evil and suffering exists,
right? Doesn't make sense to me. Okay,
good. I you hang with me and we'll go.
He's as powerful and caring as he says.
In order to understand goodness, there
has to be a
mind. This tree has no understanding of
good. This cement has no understanding
of good. See, could good can't just
exist because goodness requires
definition. And it's an intangible value
that you can't measure. You can't grab
goodness. Which means you got to have a
mind involved in defining what is good.
If we're going by that definition, then
what what is defining God?
God. We'll get to that. All the
arguments you could give for God could
also go for good. just in a as a general
concept. Uhuh. It could just exist
eternally out of time. Unmeasurable. Um,
no sir, that's not fair.
If go if God exists, God doesn't depend
on
anybody. If goodness as an intangible
value exists, it depends on a mind to
find also be an intang intangible
obviously. That's right. It could like
coming from a different pe viewpoint
outside of trying to see
where you know the reasoning for things.
You could say that it could be what we
define as God. Soci like society could
just be the existence of just that good
in the same context of eternal and
timeless and all that like if there is
no God goodness is not eternal because
goodness demands a mind to define it.
Then if then in giving that same
argument then what mind defines God?
There would be something above him if
something has to make him or define him
or no God can be an eternal being
without beginning without end. I don't
think you see my point cuz good just
goodness could be the same thing. You're
not listening sir. You're giving
goodness a different definition. No sir.
You're not listening to me and I don't
appreciate it. I told you flat out and I
think you're smart enough to get this
point. Goodness defi demands some mind
to define it. The tree the cement has no
ability to understand goodness. You've
got to have a mind. Do you see that or
do you disagree with me? I I I think
we're coming to different definitions of
good because then like there's still
outside of that though given your
definition of good still why is evil
suffering? You get my definition of
good. Your definition of good. I'm just
saying I'm just saying given yours, why
does evil and suffering exist? All
right, we'll get all debating that part
of the Okay, but sir, I got a real
problem with your thinking. All right, I
don't think you're being honest with
yourself. That's not fair. You know very
well that I've cornered you totally
intellectually. You know very well that
you cannot have goodness without some
type of mind to create and define it.
It's impossible. This does not define
goodness. That does not define goodness.
And that camera does not define
goodness. And your glasses do not define
goodness. Neither does your shirt, your
pants, or your sneakers. You've got to
have a mind to define
goodness. Sorry. You have no option
intellectually. This has nothing to do
with God. It has nothing to do with
Jesus. It has to do with simply thinking
fairly.
All right. Moving on the next. didn't
take my question. Your point is okay.
But if this good God exists, why is
there evil and suffering? It's real
simple, sir. If an all powerful God
chooses to partially limit his power by
giving you a free will by giving me a
free will, then if I go up to her, slap
her in the face, and say, "God made me
do it." What am I?
A liar. A total
liar. God gave me a hand for a purpose.
to respect this woman, to love this
woman. But because I have a free will, I
don't have to respect her. I don't have
to love her. I can steal her backpack. I
can smack her around. I can abuse her.
And if anybody says, "God made me do
it." They are a
liar flat
out. So why does evil exist? Evil exists
because God limited his power. He's all
powerful but he limited his power by
choosing to give her a free will, me a
free will, all of us a free will. Does
that make any sense? It kind of answers
it for humanity be suffering also it
suffering also exists just in the
animals. Good. Like why does a zebra
deserve to get it throat crushed to
death by a lion? Like how is that caring
or just like coming from a Christian
standpoint? We have sinned as humans
coming from the Christian standpoint. We
are, you know, we have free will and we
can make mistakes and all that, but why
not why have animals just, you know, not
have their perfect little ecosystem
where nothing has to suffer and only
humans suffer? Very good. Now we're
thinking, all right, so Genesis chapters
1 and two, God creates a good world. God
created this and God saw that it was
good. God created that and God saw that
it was good. God created this and God
sees it's good. So when God created, he
did a good job. No evil. But Genesis
chapter 3 records how human beings rebel
against God. And one of the consequences
of human beings telling God, "Get lost.
Get out of here." is God honors our free
will, takes a step back from planet
Earth, and nature unravels. And so
you're absolutely correct, sir. Animals
suffer. I have suffered. We all will
suffer. Not because God is sicking us,
but because God created a world with
free will, people with free will. We
chose him to tell him to get out. When
he gets out,
so chaos fills the gap. Genetic
breakdown, death occur because So
because humans decided to reject God,
God punished the animals.
One of the
consequently God, no, it's a it's an
issue of consequences. Who put Texas
State together? Did they do it last
summer? Well, the consequence should go
to the humans that did it. You don't
punish someone else for somebody else's
misdoings. That would be a nice way for
things to happen. But unfortunately,
because I have free will, if you're a
husband and I smack you
around, it might affect how you treat
your wife when you go home tonight.
Might affect how you treat your kids
when you go home tonight. You see, for
me to think that, well, I've got free
will and it's just me and it's just you
and there are no consequences to where
the way I exercise my free will, that's
a lie. Total lie. Well, how I would
interact with animals is one thing, but
how animals should interact with each
other? Why suffering exists between
animals, not from humans to animals, but
between animals, suffering exists? Why
are they being punished through
suffering between themselves if they
didn't do anything wrong? Correct.
You're absolutely correct. They didn't
do anything wrong.
the same way little babies that I have
to bury didn't do anything wrong. But
they're born into an unfair world where
birth defects occur and so babies die
not because they've done something
wrong. They have not done anything
wrong, but they are born into an unfair,
unjust, messed up
world. Thanks for raising those issues.
Yes, ma'am. They're also born with
original sin though, which Okay, what
does that mean? My good Catholic friend.
What does that mean? Um, it means that
as a consequence of at, correct me if
I'm wrong, but as a consequence of Adam
and Eve eating the apple, all the
following children would be born with
this original sin that would have been
an effect of
mankind previously. Correct. Okay.
maybe.
And um at least also the way I was
brought up was that um if you were not
baptized or had your original sin
reversed, you would not be able to make
it to heaven. Yeah, I totally disagree
with that. I don't think there's any
biblical basis for that. But wouldn't
like original sin be a spiritual birth
defect? Good. Oh, now I think we're on
to something here. Okay. So, what on
earth is original sin? Original sin is
simply this. I am born with a readiness
to sin factor. Doesn't mean that
everything I do is evil. My atheist
friends do a lot of good. They've got a
conscience. But all of us have sinned.
Every atheist, every agnostic, every
Christian, Jew, Buddhist, Hindu, we all
have sinned. Part of the reason we have
sinned is because we're born with a
readiness to sin factor. Let me give you
an example. When I was four years old, I
was in a sandbox playing and my friend
had the
audacity to hurt me. So, very naturally,
I took the up the metal truck and I
said, "Really?"
Bam. Never seen that behavior model
before, but I very naturally took up the
metal truck, slammed it on my
playmates's head, and it wasn't
pretty. I am a sinner.
That's my son over there walking this
way. He used to sit on a baby chair. I
would put a glass of grape juice in
front of him and I would say, "Steuart,
do not knock this glass of grape juice
off this tray." And with a smile from
this ear to this ear, he would backhand
that glass of grape juice off the tray.
He was born a sinner. Same way his old
man, me, was born a sinner. Now, what
does that mean? It means we have a
readiness to sin
factor, but we cannot blame our sinful
nature for what we do because we still
have a free
will. So if I slap her and you say,
"Wait a second, Cliff. What did you just
do to her? Why'd you do it?" And I say,
"Because of my sinful nature." That's a
copout. Cuz I still have a will. And you
see, here's the challenge. The challenge
for me is to overcome my sinful nature
with my will and make responsible
decisions. And that's why the whole line
of thinking at Texas State University,
which is I was born with this desire,
therefore it's good, is a croc. Well,
can I ask you then, do you believe that
babies are born with an understanding of
good versus evil, or do you believe that
it was taught by human nature? Good.
Very good question. I'll answer this and
then Stuart, you answer it. I am
convinced that my little granddaughter
who is six months
old, his
daughter has no understanding of what
good and evil
are. But I am convinced that when she
comes of age, and I think for different
people that's different, she will
develop her own understanding of good
and evil. Will that understanding be
heavily influenced by her environment?
Yes, ma'am. Will her understanding of
good and evil be
limited by her
environment? No. Once again, smack. I'm
sorry you're getting hit so many times
today. You ask me, Cliff, why'd you do
it? And I say to you, because I grew up
in an environment that taught me that
women who wear this color sweatshirt
deserve to be smacked. That doesn't cut
it. Because although my environment
taught me that, I still have a
conscience, a rational mind, and I am
responsible before God to exercise that
and to contradict my culture, to
contradict my environment when I begin
to realize my environment is wrong. Let
me give you one quick example. Yeah. No,
go ahead. I played major college
basketball. I was worst guy on the team.
I had good seats for every game. But I
can promise you almost, not everybody,
but almost every guy who I played
college basketball with had a very clear
understanding of what human sexuality
was all about. It was all about getting
as many good-looking women into bed with
them as they
could. And so I had to exercise my
conscience and my rational thinking. I
had to ask, is that why God gave me my
sexuality to have sex with as many
good-looking women as I can? And was it
tempting to follow their example? I
mean, that's the environment. I mean,
shoot, we flew on a jet to different
played against UCLA, St. John's, NC
State, Wake Forest. I mean, we we, you
know, we were highf flying. Okay. And
so, we all knew what we did at night.
All right. So, I had to make a decision.
Is that the right way to live? Is that
the right way to treat women? Is that
the right way to express my sexuality?
Or has God created my sexuality for a
different
reason? So, I had to
contradict my
culture. And guess what? I've learned to
respect people who contradict their
culture and don't support racism. I I
work with some skin heads. And those
skin heads grew up in a culture that
said white superiority is clear. But
there's some skin heads who said no,
it's wrong and I'm not going to follow
my
culture. So that's how I think through
that issue. All right, Stuart, what do
you think? Yeah, I would just add to
that for because we've talked so much
about kind of the moral ethic side of
things. It's important again to remember
that the Christian faith is not about
just be a good person, somehow you'll
get into heaven. be a good person. You
know, I'm a good person, so I'm in. No.
To your question, many babies are born
into whether it's a crack baby or
whether it's a baby born into a very
religious home or a Christian, an Amish
baby, let's just say, they're typically
born into homes that are very tender,
loving, as long as they don't leave,
right? And they get excommunicated.
Tenderloving. They get taught ethics.
See, when you become a
Christian,
cynical, pharisaical, judgmental
Christians will say, "Oh, well, you
should be say nine out of 10 on the
ethic standard rung in terms of you
should be a great person." But no,
Christ understand that the baby born
into an Amish family versus the baby
born into a crackpot family, this baby
when they come to know God from a very
young age, they're going to be higher
ethically in terms of how they live than
this one who is say probably ethically
living a a pretty messed up life, at
least at first. And yet they both have
eternal life because they've accepted
Christ. It's not like somehow this one
is going to be higher in heaven. Like
there's levels than this one. But then
why give original sin to something that
doesn't have even have a working
conscience yet? I'm glad I heard you say
give original sin one more time because
I heard you say that earlier.
Because God doesn't give original sin.
See, I debated an atheist on YouTube not
too long ago. He's a comedian and that's
what he kept pushing me on out of the
book of Isaiah. Briefly talks about how
God creates evil. But if you look at the
interpretation, what it means is God
judges different people groups when they
have done tremendous evil. So just like
that passage with original sin, God
doesn't give us original sin. He gives
us free will just like with Satan to
decide whether to worship him, to love
him, to have a loving relationship with
him, or to just go our own way, to live
for ourselves, to live any old way we
want. And then that based off of Genesis
3 and what happened in the garden with
Adam and Eve, what they decided that
we're God, we're going to flip you off.
We could care less about you. Then they
lived their own kind of way and original
sins started. But to your point,
absolutely were born into a messed up
world. So, so we do have a readiness to
sin factor. I believe you said that from
the earliest of ages. But babies will
also be in heaven because when David's
baby
dies, the wife, his wife was Bashibba.
He says, "I will go to you. You will not
come to me." So babies will be in heaven
based off of the question earlier on
suffering. Does that make any sense?
Yes. Thank you so much for raising that.
Yes, sir.
Um, so I believe in God and I turned
Christian and I know it's only because
I'm American and obviously the main
religion in America is Christian. Yeah.
So that's why I lean towards Christian
but I have a question. So not a good
reason to lean towards Christian. Okay.
I appreciate your honesty and your your
ability to analyze yourself. Please do
not believe in Jesus Christ cuz you grew
up in America. Not a good reason. No.
No. I So I be I believe in God. Good.
And I didn't before. Right. But I'm
still stuck on this whole Jesus thing.
Yes. Because if he's sinless
or if he's sinless, like is there a
possibility that there will be another
person born that's sinless or is Jesus
the only one? Well, Jesus is the only
one that I know of so far who's been
born sinless. Mhm. And I think it's
highly unlikely that someone will be
born sinless. I guess my main question
is is I can believe in God because I
know I can't see him factually, but I
have a belief in him. Yes. But I don't
know if I can believe in Jesus cuz he
was on earth. Yes. And not everybody was
there to prove whether he was sinless or
not. Like he wasn't surrounded by people
24/7. Good point. Very good point. So
maybe Jesus did sin at some point. Mhm.
But I have to follow the evidence. And
the evidence is the Apostle John lived
closely with Christ for 3 years. And in
first John, John writes, "In him is no
sin." So you're right. John didn't live
with Jesus intimately for three 33
years. just for three years. Yeah, but I
can promise you if a dude lives with
Jesus for three years and can honestly
say, "I've never seen the guy sin."
That's pretty impressive. Then in John
chapter 8, Jesus looked at the faces of
his enemies and asked them, "Which one
of you can prove me guilty of sin?" And
his enemies were silent. Whoa. I can
promise you my enemies can point out
many times that I have sinned. Stewart,
Tacitus, plenty of the younger,
Josephus, many of these external
sources, he was talking about internal
sources with the gospels talk about not
so much Jesus. Jesus was talked about in
a way where he he he was a magician.
Josephus talked about how he was nasty.
But then other sources contradict him
saying that he just hated Christianity.
That's why he was saying that about
Jesus. So, I would look more so at his
followers to talk about the sinlessness
because they were known for a few
different things. One, against
infanticide. They were pulling babies
off of garbage heaps. Two,
egalitarianism. They treated everybody
equally. Three, they were made up mainly
of the of slaves who were coming into
the church. Fourthly, they were non
retaliatory. They were known in a very
weird kind of way to actually not get
revenge on other people groups, which
was huge during that day. So, I'd look
at Christians as the evidence for
Christ. Okay. Now, I like you a lot. So,
you're being honest, so keep going.
Yeah. So, maybe this is just like the
belief part, but I have a hard time
believing that part. Like, I I I I can
believe in God because I know I can
never see it. That's I mean, we can
never see God. Well, we can never see
him like visually. Is that why you
believe in God? Cuz you can't see him.
No. No. I mean, I couldn't get too deep
into it, but it would take a long time.
But I'm saying like just reading the
book and believing that there was a
human that did that. I have a hard time
believing that. Like a really hard time.
Okay. But I'm pleading with you. You got
a good mind, sir. You articulate and
think well. Now remember, you can't
believe in God simply because you
believe in God. You believe in God
because there's evidence. A lot of it's
common sense. Well, my evidence is that
there is a objective truth. Good. And
that from that there is a good. All
right.
But I don't see Jesus in all that. I
don't see the equation of that. Okay.
But remember, we're starting off then
with defining faith. You don't believe
in God simply because you believe. No.
You believe in God because there's
evidence that God exists, right? Yeah.
Okay. Excellent. Now, just do the same
thing with Jesus. Read the Gospels.
Sure. Yes. And yes, it's going to be
different. The the evidence that God
exists is not historical. It's
philosophical, right? You see order and
design points to a designer. You see a
moral absolute, an objective moral
points to a moral lawgiver. Okay, you've
got your evidence. Now, when it comes to
Jesus, it's not going to be
philosophical. Why? Because he claimed
to be God in human form. But I like that
because that means we can historically
analyze Christ. Mhm. Which is why Paul
writes in 1 Corinthians 15, if Jesus
Christ is not risen from the dead, we're
idiots for believing in
him. Because the veracity, the
truthfulness of Christ is based on his
claim. I'm going to die and rise from
the dead. Oh, that was a big mistake,
Jesus. What's the mistake? You gave us a
way to verify you or falsify you. If you
don't rise from the dead, you Jesus are
a liar. But if you did rise from the
dead, you Jesus are the truth. thoughts
that you need a higher power to validate
your good behavior is honestly kind of
less respectable than people who find
the will to be good people just because
it's it's good it's love and like God is
essentially love and that's what I
respect about Christianity cuz God is
love but he's not this whole creation
story he's not this whole thing he's not
the judgment book he's not a judge Well,
who is God? You said he's love. I'm like
saying he's, but I'm not trying to even
put it into like a human term. Like,
it's not. It's like it it's like energy.
Okay. How does energy love?
Do you have a loving relationship with
electricity? Energy is love. Energy is
love. Is electricity love?
Is nuclear power love? No. The energy.
Well, then what are you talking about?
What do you mean? How do you explain
God? Very simple. God is a personal
being, not an it. God is not
electricity. God is a personal being who
has a mind who created us. Making it a
personal being turns him human and
humanity isn't divine. He's a spiritual
being. He's not a human. Okay. So, how
do you define spiritual energy?
Is that not energy? Is that not karmic
energy like in the world? No, it's not
electricity. Okay. I didn't say
electricity. I said energy. What do you
mean energy? Like Okay. So, you just
Life life is energy. It's a form of
energy. God is a living being.
Absolutely correct. God is a living
being in that sense. God is very
energetic. No question about that. Yeah.
I mean, yeah, but like it's not like he
is someone you can h like form a
relationship like I How do you know
that? How do you know you can't have a
relationship with God? But that's my
truth. I don't I can't have Is it
possible that your truth is wrong? Is it
possible my truth is wrong? That's
that's what makes it a belief. Then
that's why I'm saying this whole thing
is a belief and you like trying to
convince people that it's like a truth
is kind of going past the the obvious
explanation that it is just a belief and
it's so I thought we were on a
university campus that is committed to
the liberal arts education which is
based on the idea that we all have
different philosophies, different
beliefs and what an education is is a
free exchange of ideas where we begin to
challenge each other and ask each other
what's the evidence of what you believe
is true. So you're doing that's where I
thought we were at a university. I
didn't know we were at a place that says
it doesn't matter what you believe
because everything is true. I thought we
were at a place where a professor said
that answer's wrong and if you don't
learn to study and get in touch with
reality truth, you're going to flunk out
of this place. I am so sorry. I'm under
this misconception that we're in a
university where a liberal arts
education, the free exchange of ideas,
the questioning and challenging each
other. What do you believe and why do
you believe it? I thought that's what
this place was all about. I'm so sorry
for my misunderstanding. I think you're
going too far because she came up here
respectfully and asked and had a normal
conversation with you. No, I think Yeah.
And I'm respecting her and answering
exactly what she's raising and I'll
listen to you and answer you exactly
what you raise and that's called
intellectual respect. Just to make it
clear you're you're here like just make
it clear you're here on behalf of UT as
if this is an educational I've been
invited here by Kai Alpha Christian
Fellowship a group of UT students. I've
been invited here by that group to speak
here to dialogue. Okay. So, you were
invited. Yes. You're not just here like
a random crazy person like just
preaching for no reason. Well, I have
great respect for random people who come
and talk. That's their right. We have
free speech in this country, guys. All
right. So, there's nothing wrong. It's
not me. But you're on a schedule is what
I'm just trying to say. Yeah. I got a
flight to New York City tomorrow morning
at 8:26. That's correct. I'm on a
schedule. Wonderful.
Now, why don't you believe in Jesus
Christ? That's great. I just You mean
like the human form of of God? Yeah. He
claimed to be God in human form. So why
didn't you believe in Jesus? It's just
not scientifically feasible enough for
me to put on my faith and follow and
like go to church for it. It's not my
belief. It's not true to me. I was
raised up Catholic. Went to a Catholic
private school. And it wasn't until I
went to that private school that I
realized it was all bull in my eyes.
What's your It's based on a story that
has no scientific truth. It doesn't
reach me at a level where I'm like, "Oh
my gosh, this is like perfect." Like,
this is it. It's just personally not
connected. Okay, fine. Scientifically,
prove to me that George Washington was
the first president of the United
States. Can you do that scientifically?
I mean, this has to be some type of
fallacy cuz he wrote accounts. Did Jesus
actually write anything down? No. I
don't believe George Washington was
first president of the United States
because a dude named George Washington
wrote something. Eyewitnesses saw George
and they wrote down what they saw.
Eyewitness testimony. Yeah, he wrote
stuff. Yes. Wait, wait. Did Jesus Sorry.
No. Jesus did not write anything. The
eyewitnesses who saw him wrote what they
saw. Jesus spoke. Those who heard him
wrote down what he spoke. like about
2,000 years later. It was an eyewitness.
No. Yes, it was. We have Greek
manuscripts, ma'am, from the early 2nd
century that clearly point to the fact
that we have an accurate account of what
Jesus said in the first century. So,
what's what's wrong with other people's
religions truths that have real accounts
of it like Judaism? Yeah, what about it?
So, why are you different from Judaism?
Why are they different from Hindu? Like
why are they different? That's what's
separating people. You trying to force
people into certain beliefs is what's
separating, not you trying to steal her
bag and think it's a moral problem and
alienation and isolation. I mean, I know
you're not forcing anyone. You're just
trying to spread. That was incredibly
judgmental for you to say that. I'm glad
you caught yourself on that one, but why
like does anyone else from other faith
like do this? Like the fact that it's
always Christians is kind of like is
kind of a red flag. And I think it just
kind of puts you guys You got to be
kidding me. It's true. You don't think
Muslims share their spread their belief?
I mean, you don't think
Muslims yelling to kids on this campus?
You don't think atheists spread their
belief yelling to people on this campus?
No. I can promise you. I can promise you
there are atheists who spread their
faith very effectively at UT Austin.
We have no other yelling at people here.
There is no other faith on Speedway
besides Christianity. Okay. Well, then
why don't you stand up and talk about
Hinduism? Because I don't feel the need
to. Yeah, she got her truths figured
out. She doesn't care if other people
see her truth or not cuz she knows she's
being the best person she can be. Well,
then it's real simple. And it doesn't
come down to a fate. Ma'am, if you
suddenly have a seizure, I'm not just
going to stand here and say, "Too bad
you got a seizure." I'm going to call
911. I'm going to get the best doctor to
try and heal you. That's good. Not only
am I going to do that, but if I'm
convinced that Jesus Christ offers you
eternal life in heaven, then because I
love you and if you have a seizure, I'm
going to call 911. That's an expression
of my love for you. So, I'm going to
seek to communicate to you. Jesus offers
you eternal life. Why don't you check
him out? So, why is that your why is
that the thing that's pushing you to
help people? Love. because I am
convinced that God created us to love
each other. But that's a secondary
source that's forcing your actions.
That's not just you loving me because
I'm alive right here. I love you because
God created us for the purpose of loving
each other. That's why I love you. So I
don't care if you're my enemy. I'm going
to love you. If if you're my enemy, if
you try and hurt me, I'm still going to
try and love you. Why? Because I'm
convinced that God created us to love
each other. And if God created us to
love each other, then that means
regardless of how difficult it is to
love each other, we're still going to
try and love each other if we're
followers of Christ. I see. I recognize
like that's your truth. But if if I do
the same thing to someone, if you're
having a seizure and I choose to help
you, yes, why am I wrong? Because my my
like the thing that made me do that
isn't what Jesus wants. Why is it wrong
for me to just be loving? Because I feel
like based on my past experiences in
this life, that's what I want to do to
be a good person. Why does it have to be
cuz this is what Jesus wants. Cuz this
is what Jesus says. Every time that you
love, that is good. Exactly. Regardless
of what you believe, every time you
love, but speaking for myself, I can't
speak for you, but speaking for myself,
I have not always loved. I am a sinner.
Me neither. Okay. I I have violated
God's purpose in creating me, which is
to love God and to love people.
Therefore, I need God's forgiveness. I
also need his help to love my enemy
because to be very honest with you, too
frequently, not all the time, but too
frequently, I want to cut my enemy off
at the knees. And that's wrong of me.
All right. So, that's why I need to ask
God for forgiveness and for the power to
change so that I can love even my enemy.
Yeah. Well, the fact I'm not saying that
you're weak for needing that extra help
or anything, but I think that's why
faith and like religion is so easy to
follow for humans that have no idea why
we're here. We're all clueless at the
end of the day. We don't really know
what's going to happen right when we
die. And we can all say that or else
we're we're naive. And I think what is
love and who defines it? And I think
that religion makes it easy because it
hands truth to us. What is love? You
talked a lot about love and find what is
love and who defines love? Hand it to us
through a Bible. What is love and who
defines it?
Cuz I got a lot I know a lot of guys who
have a very definite definition of what
it means to love you. You're a very
beautiful woman and I can promise you I
got a lot of guys who can tell me very
clearly what it means to love you. And
it ain't pretty. Okay. So, who defines
love? If it's just a personal thing,
you've got your personal trip. I can
promise you I had a lot of guy friends
who got their definition of what it
means to love you, a beautiful woman.
And it ain't pretty. So, what makes your
definition of love more correct than
their definition of love? Well, it's not
the definition of love. It's the moral
compass that someone builds up as they
have more past experiences. And why is
your moral compass more correct than
their moral compass? We're saying it is.
We're saying Oh, come on. You know very
well that if some guy says to love means
to use you sexually, they are wrong.
That's evil. Don't you believe that?
Don't you believe that? They're
unethical. Uhhuh. Okay. So, who defines
ethics? Who defines goodness and who
defines love? Well, that's a whole
philosophical question. It's a very
practical question, ma'am. It's an
incredibly practical question. What's
your answer besides God to them? Yeah.
What's your answer? This is what Jesus
said. That has gone. It's so easy for
you to stand here cuz you can say Jesus
told me this. Jesus said this. It's so
easy to never have I done that to you.
But it's amazing the way you parrot
that. You're attacking a straw man.
Ma'am, now why don't you listen to me as
I try to listen to you and respond to
me, not respond to a straw man. I never
said just do something cuz Jesus says
it. It's not my argument. My argument is
your experience of love as a real value.
your firm conviction that those guys who
define love as being to sexually use
you, they are wrong. Really wrong. Why?
Because there is such a thing as real
love that they are violating the Now
you've got to ask yourself real love,
who defines real love? And if there is
no God, there's no objective love. I'm
not saying there's no God. Okay, fine.
But listen, if there is no God, then
we're not saying that. No, my argument
is the fact that we're not saying that
there's not a God. We're just saying
that it doesn't always have to be Jesus
like in the form of like Christian.
Okay, fine. So, who is God? I mean, like
I so I have different beliefs. Who is
God for you? I mean like we have
multiple that take the same path. We
have multiple dogs. Okay. So, if I say
God is the lamp post, is that true? No,
that's just disrespectful. What do you
mean disrespectful? If I believe that
the lampost is part of God, don't tell
me that's disrespectful. That's what I
believe. No, no. I thought you were
talking about Hinduism being like No, I
didn't say that. If I If I Cliff believe
the lampost is God, that's you have a
problem with that. You disagree. You
agree with me that lampost is God? I
respect your belief that that is God is
the lampost, but that's not my belief.
Okay. Then if you believe that God is
not the lampost, would you try and help
me see that the lampost is not God? Or
would you just say, "Go ahead, Cliff.
Believe the lampost is God." I mean,
that's what religion is today.
Like you believe in Christianity. I'm
not going to come and try to be like,
"Oh, like you need to believe Hinduism.
Hinduism. Hinduism." Well, what are you
doing out here talking to me? You Why
are you here then? Why are you here? I
see what you were talking about. Good.
And you started talking, but let's be
real honest. You disagree with me, okay,
and that's fine, but let's not try and
act like you don't disagree with me
because you know very well. Everyone
knows I'm here because I don't agree
with you. Exactly. And that and I
respect that. That's fine. But let's not
start getting on your high horse telling
me that because I believe Jesus is the
truth. Oh, that's some type of
narrow-minded bigoted view. You have
your truth and I have my truth and I'm
I'm trying to dialogue with you. What's
the evidence that your truth is right?
Okay. Well, I think both of us at Sab
say that we're curious why is like
people are always here preaching. I
don't know why other people come out
here and preach. I don't I know why I
do. I don't know why. Same reason for
all of y'all. No, it's not. Don't
generalize like that. That's just as
bigoted as if I were to say to you. You
both are motivated by the same thing. I
don't know you ladies. I've got to
respect you as an individual and not
just say all preachers, all UT students.
That's all. I am here because I love
you. I am. Thank you for asking that
question. I'm here because I love you
and I have found that Jesus Christ is
totally reliable. Which means if he was
for you. No, let us. Thank you.
Because the evidence of the way Jesus
lived, taught, died, and rose from the
dead points to his
trustworthiness. I'm concerned that you
not trust someone who's going to ditch
you, who's going to fail you. Jesus
Christ was dead. He rose from the dead.
Therefore, I'm convinced he can help you
with the fact that you're going to die.
He can help you in a way that nobody
else can that I have ever been exposed
to. So therefore, because I love you and
I use the illustration, if you had a
seizure, if she had a seizure, I would
try and call 911. So I'm convinced that
you and I both have dates with death.
Therefore, if Jesus Christ is able to
give us eternal life and if I claim to
love you, I'm going to tell you. The
same way if you get cancer, ma'am, and I
know a doctor who can cure your cancer,
I don't love you if I don't tell you
about that doctor. Okay? But like if
everyone is walking around like I have a
different faith, do you believe that
just because we don't follow
Christianity that we're all just like on
a different path? Like we're not going
to heaven? Yeah. Are we sinners? Are we
inherently sinners because we don't
believe? No. We're all sinners beginning
with me. Because we rebel against God.
Because we don't love God and love
others the way he created us to. So, I'm
a sinner. I'm number one sinner out
here. Okay. But separate from that, like
what? So, if someone is not a Christian,
what is their path in life like after
they die? All right. Why don't you
answer that, Stuart? Wait, what? Sorry.
What was the last one? No, it's just
that if someone is like not a Christian,
like what do you think happens like
after they die? after they die if
they're not a Christian. Yeah. Because
he was talking about like eternal life,
like heaven, like everything. What do
you like? What do you do? I'll answer
that from a Christian perspective, then
you can answer from a Hindu perspective.
Yeah. I'm just curious. Yeah. So, from a
Christian perspective, it's all about
giving up yourself and worshiping God
because we all worship in some kind of
way, some kind of thing, right? I mean,
the best fiction writer probably in the
last hundred years who wrote infinite
jest gave a Kenyon College address where
he said, "We all worship something. If
it's something on this earth, it will
eat you alive. Whether it's
relationships, money, you name it. So,
we believe in Jesus Christ. We believe
in God outside of us. We by accepting
God, we empty ourselves, grow a trusting
relationship with Christ, and that is
how you have eternal life with him. But
that does not mean somebody over in
India who's never heard the name of
Jesus Christ is going to hell. Oh, yeah.
I get that. I get if you get that. Okay.
So, from a Hindu perspective, see, I
think you should be out here. Maybe not
with the same kind of voice as him
because you guys are slightly hardwired
differently. But I do think sometimes
you should maybe be on this corner. That
makes a great point. Thank you for
talking out here. I appreciate it a lot.
Okay. But I do think because I have some
Hindu friends and I've been to their
homes and I've I've had conversations
with two different women who said to me,
"We're in different cast systems and so
one is slightly more valuable than the
other." And it was a very awkward
conversation. But I think for you to
love me would be to come out here and
say, "Hey, Stuart, you have a slightly
bad sense of karma because you've been
living a certain way. I want to help
you, not come back as a cockroach. So
you're I'm going to help you and
communicate what a good type of
lifestyle is according to the Hindu
faith rather than just saying don't push
your faith on somebody because that's
considered proitizing." Well, by
claiming not to push your faith on
somebody, that's also a form of
proitizing. Maybe it's a form of quieter
prostitizing, but see this sweet woman
right here, I am very impressed by her.
And yet the same thing that she was
doing, she was basically calling him
intolerant for the way he was
communicating an exclusive truth. She
was communicating an even more
intolerant exclusive truth because she
was saying she had this kind of 30,000
view of all religions and that they are
either the same or that they should not
be communicating their truth in a
certain way when 87% of the world is
making exclusive truth claims about
their own religions. So what's more
exclusive and intolerant?
My thing is like okay so you guys are
like out here like preaching like
spreading the word like I get the
hopefully not preaching too much. Okay.
No, but I want to be PC. Okay. But like
spreading the word, okay, we'll say
that. But the thing is like Hinduism is
a very accepting religion. Like
obviously like you have to be born into
but you can still practice it as a
religion. But not like like okay from
I'm speaking from my experience like how
I grew up. Nobody like goes around like
I agree but it wasn't like like no one
spreads the word like that. Like if
someone is interested and want to come
like the arms are always open but no one
avidly goes out and like spends their
time like doing this. Why not? No. But
I'm asking like why are you guys? Why
aren't you doing that though? If my
karma is bad and I'm headed towards
being a cockroach or something worse
than a cockroach, why wouldn't you come
and talk to me? But the thing is, help
me out of it. Help me out of my
ignorance.
I just don't like I've had Hindus come
up to me and offer different paths than
the ones that I'm communicating. Yeah,
that's fine. But like it's completely I
just
don't disagree with the style of
communication.
Okay. But again, the atheist department
at numerous Ivy Leagues, especially
Dartmouth right now, has put out
different articles in their papers
saying if you're a Christian or another
faith that claims some type of eternal
existence through their path, you have
the moral obligation to be doing this
right now. That was the atheist society
at Dartmouth University. I mean, that's
their age. They're being honest. They're
saying this is your worldview. If you
truly believe that people have are
either going to be in heaven or hell and
not some vague existence in between,
then you better be preaching or at least
communicating in some kind of way this
type of truth.
Now, my last piece, well, no, I'm not
going to go. All right. No, what is it?
It was a question on Hinduism. Good. ask
her. Sure. I might This is a little bit
tougher, a little more direct. So, as as
also a therapist, I'm also a mental
health therapist.
I'll go to the bedside of a person
dying.
And when I am there, often times I'm
thinking about world views. Typically,
it's my own worldview, my own faith,
right? And I'm thinking about a
suffering God, Jesus Christ, who is with
us in our suffering. He's the only
suffering God that I know of.
Then I am thinking about something like
atheism. If I am an atheist going to the
bedside of my dying mother or close
friend, see you later. Sorry, you're
falling through a trap door into just
timeless spaceless
eternity. Take take care. Depressing
versus an eternal existence. Falling
through a trap door into the loving arms
of a god, a personal god is radically
different. Now my Hindu friends though I
I also believe have a little bit of a
problem when it comes to an
understanding of suffering because it's
the one toone correlation of if my mom
drives and get into a car accident today
and dies. There's a one to one
correlation of her doing something wrong
that caused her suffering and death.
Yeah, I feel like that's radically
different from the Christian faith,
which is not just the suffering God, but
it's also there is death, there is
confusion, there is all kinds of pain
and suffering that typically has nothing
to do with your bad deeds, your bad
deeds or bad karma. Okay? Ours is based
on karma normally. But do you see how
that's problematic? Like that does not
fit my experience when I'm dealing with
death and and dying folks to go to them
and say sorry you have cancer because
you did something wrong whether it was
last week, yesterday or the day before.
But the thing is like it's not that
minuscule. It's like what you've done
throughout your life. So you know how
like you guys like okay I'm a sinner
like I've s like oh like I tripped
someone yesterday so now I'm going to go
die in a car. It's like the accumulation
of all the bad deeds that you've done.
Okay. So that can lead up to like one
moment like okay like I like okay you
die in a car crash whatever but
obviously when that person is dying
you're not going to be like oh like you
caused like in a way like you caused
your own cuz everyone has to die okay
that is like obviously but it's not like
it's like everyone has to die but when
you're on your deathbed no's going to be
like oh like you caused your own death
this is why like it happens for a reason
like everything happens for a reason
that is the underlying belief in Oh yeah
I actually and I can get on board with
Yeah, but I can't get on board with your
bad deeds are just accumulated, so
you're going to die a worse kind of
death than the person over here like
this sweet little lady who was saying
that she's just living for goodness. So,
she's not going to suffer as opposed to
the person perhaps who grew up an addict
because maybe their parents were addicts
and so they had a type of bad deeds when
it came to their alcoholism. So, somehow
they're going to suffer worse because
they're worse people and let's ostracize
them versus this sweet lady who's
supposedly living for great. I mean, not
necessarily because you say that like
your parents are addicts or you're an
addict. Like you're like doing drugs and
everything that can be understandable
because of the origin that you come from
like your parents. But the thing that's
going to cause your karma is the actions
you take being that person. It's not
necessarily what you start from. Do you
know what I mean? Like every person is
responsible for their own actions. Just
because like you may have a tougher
background, like that's obviously taken
into consideration. Like I don't know
all that. But what I grew up knowing is
that it doesn't it's your personal
actions that cause like your like course
for the rest of your life. Like
obviously if you do something good like
something good will happen to you or
like you're making your own life better,
but if you do something bad and that's
going to catch up, right? Okay. And I
can totally get on board with that.
Sure. Sure. Sin follows us in many ways.
Yeah. So it's not from like just because
it's not like you're written a bad
faith. You know what I mean? Like you
can always turn it around. Does that
make sense? Right. And yet at the same
time there is a big difference between
grace and forgiveness in the Christian
faith versus in the Hindu faith. You
still are determined by your bad deeds.
It's a type of determinism.
I mean whether it's accumulation of me
when I was in high school and I was
living a very partyy type lifestyle
versus perhaps more so now. I I don't
know maybe I am better ethically.
I mean that's true like but in a sense
like it's also like just like you guys
repent like you can go to the temple
like you can pray like there are certain
religious rituals that you can do that
better your karma but don't erase it.
So it's not like just because you do
this it's in your like permanent record
forever like it's etched forever so now
you're going to die like it's not like
that. Okay let's go to the cast system
now. Why did I have that very awkward
encounter with those two women who one
was higher up than the other? the
Christian faith we were talking about
out here yesterday, which is everybody.
It doesn't matter if you have a lower
level of awareness or cognitive
abilities, which I'm probably lower than
you, and or or you're born with special
needs, whatever the issue might be. We
are all created in the image of God
absolutely equal. We do not have to
somehow prove our selfworth, prove and
get my value by any kind of means
necessary. Instead, no matter what, our
value doesn't change because of what
Jesus did for us on the cross. In my
understanding in Hinduism, that's not
the case. You are born into a type of
cast system where you are better than
somebody else who was born into a
different cast system. Yeah. Well, like
to be honest, like I don't believe in
the cast system. So like I
in the Christian faith, your bad deeds
can follow you if you just keep living
in sin, making poor decisions. But
you're never too late to turn and accept
Christ, just like the thief on the
cross. And Christ turns to him and says,
"Today you will be with me in paradise."
Because it's based off of grace versus I
got to do all of this white knuckle it
on my own and somehow I'll get to
heaven.