Kind: captions Language: en What's the dark side of the Christian What's the dark side of the Christian What's the dark side of the Christian content creation world? content creation world? content creation world? &gt;&gt; Am I even laugh? I don't even know what &gt;&gt; Am I even laugh? I don't even know what &gt;&gt; Am I even laugh? I don't even know what to say. I can say to say. I can say to say. I can say &gt;&gt; I got invited to the &gt;&gt; I got invited to the &gt;&gt; I got invited to the &gt;&gt; There was a what? &gt;&gt; There was a what? &gt;&gt; There was a what? &gt;&gt; And at Burning Man. Oh, you're saved. So &gt;&gt; And at Burning Man. Oh, you're saved. So &gt;&gt; And at Burning Man. Oh, you're saved. So now you got to go make Christian now you got to go make Christian now you got to go make Christian content. content. content. &gt;&gt; That is a product for deconstruction &gt;&gt; That is a product for deconstruction &gt;&gt; That is a product for deconstruction right there. right there. right there. &gt;&gt; When I first became a Christian, I &gt;&gt; When I first became a Christian, I &gt;&gt; When I first became a Christian, I became friends with a bunch of people became friends with a bunch of people became friends with a bunch of people that were doing Christian social media that were doing Christian social media that were doing Christian social media to any way, shape, or extreme form or to any way, shape, or extreme form or to any way, shape, or extreme form or whatever. Half of them aren't even whatever. Half of them aren't even whatever. Half of them aren't even Christians anymore because Christianity Christians anymore because Christianity Christians anymore because Christianity is becoming popular now. Christianity is becoming popular now. Christianity is becoming popular now. Christianity has become a label, not a lifestyle. has become a label, not a lifestyle. has become a label, not a lifestyle. &gt;&gt; That is wild. So, you're 21 or 22? &gt;&gt; That is wild. So, you're 21 or 22? &gt;&gt; That is wild. So, you're 21 or 22? &gt;&gt; 21. &gt;&gt; 21. &gt;&gt; 21. &gt;&gt; 20 21. Yo, God, protect this man. He's &gt;&gt; 20 21. Yo, God, protect this man. He's &gt;&gt; 20 21. Yo, God, protect this man. He's too wise for his age. I'm sure you got too wise for his age. I'm sure you got too wise for his age. I'm sure you got some single guy Christian friends. some single guy Christian friends. some single guy Christian friends. You've been a single Christian guy. You've been a single Christian guy. You've been a single Christian guy. &gt;&gt; My prayer when I started dating my &gt;&gt; My prayer when I started dating my &gt;&gt; My prayer when I started dating my girlfriend was, "God, can I take your girlfriend was, "God, can I take your girlfriend was, "God, can I take your daughter out on a date?" daughter out on a date?" daughter out on a date?" &gt;&gt; The percentages of conversion from &gt;&gt; The percentages of conversion from &gt;&gt; The percentages of conversion from street evangelism are extremely low. The street evangelism are extremely low. The street evangelism are extremely low. The highest rate of conversion is generally highest rate of conversion is generally highest rate of conversion is generally through relationships, right? So, why through relationships, right? So, why through relationships, right? So, why would you choose literally the hardest would you choose literally the hardest would you choose literally the hardest form of reaching people? I'm going to go form of reaching people? I'm going to go form of reaching people? I'm going to go talk to strangers on the street. Why is talk to strangers on the street. Why is talk to strangers on the street. Why is that for you? &gt;&gt; This is the deep end with LRA. &gt;&gt; This is the deep end with LRA. &gt;&gt; This is the deep end with LRA. &gt;&gt; All right, ladies and gentlemen. Uh, I'm &gt;&gt; All right, ladies and gentlemen. Uh, I'm &gt;&gt; All right, ladies and gentlemen. Uh, I'm excited. I'm excited because um it's excited. I'm excited because um it's excited. I'm excited because um it's like it's like talking to, you know, uh like it's like talking to, you know, uh like it's like talking to, you know, uh somebody that inspires your your kids somebody that inspires your your kids somebody that inspires your your kids and the generation underneath you. You and the generation underneath you. You and the generation underneath you. You know what I mean? That's inspiring. It's know what I mean? That's inspiring. It's know what I mean? That's inspiring. It's also inspiring and encouraging to talk also inspiring and encouraging to talk also inspiring and encouraging to talk to this individual because of the risks to this individual because of the risks to this individual because of the risks he takes and the the the sincere passion he takes and the the the sincere passion he takes and the the the sincere passion he has for Jesus. I've seen him, you he has for Jesus. I've seen him, you he has for Jesus. I've seen him, you know, go to festivals like Burning Man know, go to festivals like Burning Man know, go to festivals like Burning Man and talk with people on the street. I've and talk with people on the street. I've and talk with people on the street. I've seen him with rappers. I've seen him seen him with rappers. I've seen him seen him with rappers. I've seen him with people that you just would not with people that you just would not with people that you just would not expect. And he's unashamed of the expect. And he's unashamed of the expect. And he's unashamed of the gospel. Romans 1:16, we're not ashamed gospel. Romans 1:16, we're not ashamed gospel. Romans 1:16, we're not ashamed of the gospel. It's the power of God for of the gospel. It's the power of God for of the gospel. It's the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes. salvation for everyone who believes. salvation for everyone who believes. This guy is not ashamed of the gospel. This guy is not ashamed of the gospel. This guy is not ashamed of the gospel. We love that about him. So, we wanted to We love that about him. So, we wanted to We love that about him. So, we wanted to have a conversation with him. My man have a conversation with him. My man have a conversation with him. My man Bryce Crawford is in the building, bro. Bryce Crawford is in the building, bro. Bryce Crawford is in the building, bro. Thank you for being here, my Thank you for being here, my Thank you for being here, my &gt;&gt; dude. Thanks for having me, man. Happy &gt;&gt; dude. Thanks for having me, man. Happy &gt;&gt; dude. Thanks for having me, man. Happy to be here. to be here. to be here. &gt;&gt; Yeah, man. &gt;&gt; Yeah, man. &gt;&gt; Yeah, man. &gt;&gt; That was really kind. Thanks for seeing. &gt;&gt; That was really kind. Thanks for seeing. &gt;&gt; That was really kind. Thanks for seeing. No, I love it, man. Like I was so I was No, I love it, man. Like I was so I was No, I love it, man. Like I was so I was just telling you a little bit earlier just telling you a little bit earlier just telling you a little bit earlier like it's inspiring to see you because like it's inspiring to see you because like it's inspiring to see you because that's kind of how I started was just that's kind of how I started was just that's kind of how I started was just like street evangelism and like like street evangelism and like like street evangelism and like &gt;&gt; I remember watching like Ray Comfort way &gt;&gt; I remember watching like Ray Comfort way &gt;&gt; I remember watching like Ray Comfort way of the of the master and just you know of the of the master and just you know of the of the master and just you know like asking people diagnostic questions like asking people diagnostic questions like asking people diagnostic questions and and getting out there and then you and and getting out there and then you and and getting out there and then you get older and you think like well maybe get older and you think like well maybe get older and you think like well maybe people just don't care about that people just don't care about that people just don't care about that anymore and then people like you pop up anymore and then people like you pop up anymore and then people like you pop up and you're like nah they still out here and you're like nah they still out here and you're like nah they still out here you know what I'm and like being you know what I'm and like being you know what I'm and like being unashamed. Um, and I'm I'm excited. I unashamed. Um, and I'm I'm excited. I unashamed. Um, and I'm I'm excited. I want to talk about it later. We'll get want to talk about it later. We'll get want to talk about it later. We'll get to it later cuz I want to hear about to it later cuz I want to hear about to it later cuz I want to hear about your story. But I'm also excited because your story. But I'm also excited because your story. But I'm also excited because my son um is a a a student at Campbell my son um is a a a student at Campbell my son um is a a a student at Campbell and he in in in Atlanta and he loved uh and he in in in Atlanta and he loved uh and he in in in Atlanta and he loved uh he grew up basically on Little Tony. he grew up basically on Little Tony. he grew up basically on Little Tony. &gt;&gt; You know what I'm saying? And so, you &gt;&gt; You know what I'm saying? And so, you &gt;&gt; You know what I'm saying? And so, you know, my son is a Christian. He goes to know, my son is a Christian. He goes to know, my son is a Christian. He goes to school wearing his Christian apparel and school wearing his Christian apparel and school wearing his Christian apparel and the whole nine. And then when he found the whole nine. And then when he found the whole nine. And then when he found out Lil Tony, you know, was was on a out Lil Tony, you know, was was on a out Lil Tony, you know, was was on a journey with Jesus, it was like he was journey with Jesus, it was like he was journey with Jesus, it was like he was excited and and I'm excited about. So excited and and I'm excited about. So excited and and I'm excited about. So we'll talk about that, we'll talk about that, we'll talk about that, &gt;&gt; dude. Let's do it, bro. Man, he that's &gt;&gt; dude. Let's do it, bro. Man, he that's &gt;&gt; dude. Let's do it, bro. Man, he that's awesome. awesome. awesome. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Awesome. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Awesome. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Awesome. &gt;&gt; So that was super dope to see. Um, but &gt;&gt; So that was super dope to see. Um, but &gt;&gt; So that was super dope to see. Um, but man, I want to talk a little bit about man, I want to talk a little bit about man, I want to talk a little bit about like like like like like like &gt;&gt; cuz some people know your story, but &gt;&gt; cuz some people know your story, but &gt;&gt; cuz some people know your story, but some people don't. So So this is a some people don't. So So this is a some people don't. So So this is a little bit like, you know, you're you're little bit like, you know, you're you're little bit like, you know, you're you're kind of like one of the younger voice kind of like one of the younger voice kind of like one of the younger voice voices that are popping up on socials voices that are popping up on socials voices that are popping up on socials right now, but that didn't just come right now, but that didn't just come right now, but that didn't just come from nowhere, right? like like what from nowhere, right? like like what from nowhere, right? like like what shaped you? Where did you come from to shaped you? Where did you come from to shaped you? Where did you come from to to to knowing Jesus and being this on to to knowing Jesus and being this on to to knowing Jesus and being this on fire the way you are? fire the way you are? fire the way you are? &gt;&gt; Man, I mean, I grew up in Carterville, &gt;&gt; Man, I mean, I grew up in Carterville, &gt;&gt; Man, I mean, I grew up in Carterville, Georgia. Uh maybe a little bit more Georgia. Uh maybe a little bit more Georgia. Uh maybe a little bit more country town than most places out here. country town than most places out here. country town than most places out here. And yeah, and uh I grew up going I went And yeah, and uh I grew up going I went And yeah, and uh I grew up going I went in a Christian school, grew up going to in a Christian school, grew up going to in a Christian school, grew up going to church on Sunday, but man, Jesus was church on Sunday, but man, Jesus was church on Sunday, but man, Jesus was just really mundane to me. It was just just really mundane to me. It was just just really mundane to me. It was just all this head knowledge. I knew him. He all this head knowledge. I knew him. He all this head knowledge. I knew him. He was on my Bible quizzes and tests at was on my Bible quizzes and tests at was on my Bible quizzes and tests at school. or Jesus was the guy that I school. or Jesus was the guy that I school. or Jesus was the guy that I heard people say with their mouth that heard people say with their mouth that heard people say with their mouth that they love. But then I would see them they love. But then I would see them they love. But then I would see them &gt;&gt; Monday through Saturday doing wild &gt;&gt; Monday through Saturday doing wild &gt;&gt; Monday through Saturday doing wild things downtown. So I'm just like, things downtown. So I'm just like, things downtown. So I'm just like, &gt;&gt; who who really is Jesus? He's got to be &gt;&gt; who who really is Jesus? He's got to be &gt;&gt; who who really is Jesus? He's got to be a hypocrite if that's how people are a hypocrite if that's how people are a hypocrite if that's how people are treating him. He's got to be just a guy treating him. He's got to be just a guy treating him. He's got to be just a guy on my quizzes and test. So I really on my quizzes and test. So I really on my quizzes and test. So I really didn't care about it. We stopped going didn't care about it. We stopped going didn't care about it. We stopped going to church to church to church &gt;&gt; maybe like fifth grade, sixth grade, &gt;&gt; maybe like fifth grade, sixth grade, &gt;&gt; maybe like fifth grade, sixth grade, unless it was like a holiday. unless it was like a holiday. unless it was like a holiday. &gt;&gt; Um so so I think that's where, &gt;&gt; Um so so I think that's where, &gt;&gt; Um so so I think that's where, &gt;&gt; you know, family brokenness started to &gt;&gt; you know, family brokenness started to &gt;&gt; you know, family brokenness started to creep in. And that's when the anxiety creep in. And that's when the anxiety creep in. And that's when the anxiety started to creep in, depression started started to creep in, depression started started to creep in, depression started to creep in, and just had this hidden to creep in, and just had this hidden to creep in, and just had this hidden battle for years of just like, man, like battle for years of just like, man, like battle for years of just like, man, like no one knows how I feel, and I feel no one knows how I feel, and I feel no one knows how I feel, and I feel ashamed. That's what the anxiety and ashamed. That's what the anxiety and ashamed. That's what the anxiety and depression does. It makes you feel depression does. It makes you feel depression does. It makes you feel shameful for dealing with it, you know? shameful for dealing with it, you know? shameful for dealing with it, you know? And so for years, I had the anxiety and And so for years, I had the anxiety and And so for years, I had the anxiety and depression up until I was 17. I thought depression up until I was 17. I thought depression up until I was 17. I thought that the only way to make the pain to go that the only way to make the pain to go that the only way to make the pain to go away was to take my life because I had away was to take my life because I had away was to take my life because I had tried every vice, man. I tried the porn. tried every vice, man. I tried the porn. tried every vice, man. I tried the porn. I had tried the girls. I tried the I had tried the girls. I tried the I had tried the girls. I tried the people pleasing. I never touched drugs people pleasing. I never touched drugs people pleasing. I never touched drugs or alcohol. Um, but I I just tried so or alcohol. Um, but I I just tried so or alcohol. Um, but I I just tried so many different things and it never many different things and it never many different things and it never worked. And so when I was 17 on worked. And so when I was 17 on worked. And so when I was 17 on Christmas Day of 2020, I was going to Christmas Day of 2020, I was going to Christmas Day of 2020, I was going to take my life. And take my life. And take my life. And man, I think that was just so important man, I think that was just so important man, I think that was just so important because that day was just like when you because that day was just like when you because that day was just like when you think of Christmas like day of gift think of Christmas like day of gift think of Christmas like day of gift giving, a day of celebration, a day of giving, a day of celebration, a day of giving, a day of celebration, a day of joy. And I'm like, man, this is my last joy. And I'm like, man, this is my last joy. And I'm like, man, this is my last day, like a day of sadness, depression, day, like a day of sadness, depression, day, like a day of sadness, depression, anxiety, and I'm going to take the pain anxiety, and I'm going to take the pain anxiety, and I'm going to take the pain away. And so I was just like, man, if away. And so I was just like, man, if away. And so I was just like, man, if I'm going to go out, like, I'm going to I'm going to go out, like, I'm going to I'm going to go out, like, I'm going to just enjoy one last meal. So, my just enjoy one last meal. So, my just enjoy one last meal. So, my favorite spot is Waffle House, bro. favorite spot is Waffle House, bro. favorite spot is Waffle House, bro. &gt;&gt; Wait a minute. Time out, bro. Time out. &gt;&gt; Wait a minute. Time out, bro. Time out. &gt;&gt; Wait a minute. Time out, bro. Time out. It's a serious moment, but It's a serious moment, but It's a serious moment, but &gt;&gt; I mean, I don't think you can be serious &gt;&gt; I mean, I don't think you can be serious &gt;&gt; I mean, I don't think you can be serious about that because it's just about that because it's just about that because it's just &gt;&gt; the last meal was going to be Waffle &gt;&gt; the last meal was going to be Waffle &gt;&gt; the last meal was going to be Waffle House, bro. House, bro. House, bro. &gt;&gt; Bro, you already know the Allstar &gt;&gt; Bro, you already know the Allstar &gt;&gt; Bro, you already know the Allstar special, man. That thing is holy. special, man. That thing is holy. special, man. That thing is holy. &gt;&gt; That's my thing. &gt;&gt; That's my thing. &gt;&gt; That's my thing. &gt;&gt; Come on. You know, you know, so like, &gt;&gt; Come on. You know, you know, so like, &gt;&gt; Come on. You know, you know, so like, dude, the all-star special. I mean, you dude, the all-star special. I mean, you dude, the all-star special. I mean, you get the double hash browns, eggs, get the double hash browns, eggs, get the double hash browns, eggs, scrambled with cheese, white bread, scrambled with cheese, white bread, scrambled with cheese, white bread, bacon. Uh, I like the mixed jelly. They bacon. Uh, I like the mixed jelly. They bacon. Uh, I like the mixed jelly. They got so many mixed jelly looking good. got so many mixed jelly looking good. got so many mixed jelly looking good. Chocolate chip waffle and uh, man, that Chocolate chip waffle and uh, man, that Chocolate chip waffle and uh, man, that place is holy. place is holy. place is holy. &gt;&gt; Yo, that's crazy. My man's like, "Oh, I &gt;&gt; Yo, that's crazy. My man's like, "Oh, I &gt;&gt; Yo, that's crazy. My man's like, "Oh, I got my chocolate chip waffle planned out got my chocolate chip waffle planned out got my chocolate chip waffle planned out for my last meal." for my last meal." for my last meal." &gt;&gt; Come on. My death row meal is Waffle &gt;&gt; Come on. My death row meal is Waffle &gt;&gt; Come on. My death row meal is Waffle House. And you know, Waffle House is House. And you know, Waffle House is House. And you know, Waffle House is great because great because great because &gt;&gt; uh, they can like open sneeze on your &gt;&gt; uh, they can like open sneeze on your &gt;&gt; uh, they can like open sneeze on your food and you're okay with it. You know, food and you're okay with it. You know, food and you're okay with it. You know, like there's some something going on like there's some something going on like there's some something going on past 11:00 over there. past 11:00 over there. past 11:00 over there. &gt;&gt; Like, yeah, it's supposed to happen. &gt;&gt; Like, yeah, it's supposed to happen. &gt;&gt; Like, yeah, it's supposed to happen. &gt;&gt; But you like that, you know? Dude, I've &gt;&gt; But you like that, you know? Dude, I've &gt;&gt; But you like that, you know? Dude, I've seen some crazy stuff at Waffle House, seen some crazy stuff at Waffle House, seen some crazy stuff at Waffle House, bro. But um bro. But um bro. But um &gt;&gt; yeah, so that night I go and and you &gt;&gt; yeah, so that night I go and and you &gt;&gt; yeah, so that night I go and and you know too, I mean Waffle House doesn't know too, I mean Waffle House doesn't know too, I mean Waffle House doesn't close. close. close. &gt;&gt; If it closes, it's like the end of the &gt;&gt; If it closes, it's like the end of the &gt;&gt; If it closes, it's like the end of the world's going down. So they're open, world's going down. So they're open, world's going down. So they're open, only thing open. It's packed in there. only thing open. It's packed in there. only thing open. It's packed in there. And I couldn't get a seat cuz everyone's And I couldn't get a seat cuz everyone's And I couldn't get a seat cuz everyone's in there with their family or whatever. in there with their family or whatever. in there with their family or whatever. And so I just kind of reach over to this And so I just kind of reach over to this And so I just kind of reach over to this guy that was in there that looked like guy that was in there that looked like guy that was in there that looked like he was alone. And I said, "Hey, um do he was alone. And I said, "Hey, um do he was alone. And I said, "Hey, um do you want to eat with me? I'll get your you want to eat with me? I'll get your you want to eat with me? I'll get your meal. We'll just get to sit down meal. We'll just get to sit down meal. We'll just get to sit down faster." He's like, "Yeah, sure." So we faster." He's like, "Yeah, sure." So we faster." He's like, "Yeah, sure." So we sit down. He's about double my age, sit down. He's about double my age, sit down. He's about double my age, maybe mid30s at the time. And then he maybe mid30s at the time. And then he maybe mid30s at the time. And then he all of a sudden just starts dumping his all of a sudden just starts dumping his all of a sudden just starts dumping his life issues on me. Like doesn't mention life issues on me. Like doesn't mention life issues on me. Like doesn't mention anything about Jesus, but it's just like anything about Jesus, but it's just like anything about Jesus, but it's just like my last Christmas with my kids. My my last Christmas with my kids. My my last Christmas with my kids. My wife's divorcing me. Like she's taking wife's divorcing me. Like she's taking wife's divorcing me. Like she's taking the kids away. No one's talking to me the kids away. No one's talking to me the kids away. No one's talking to me today. Like it's his worst day, too. today. Like it's his worst day, too. today. Like it's his worst day, too. &gt;&gt; But he's dumping all his life issues on &gt;&gt; But he's dumping all his life issues on &gt;&gt; But he's dumping all his life issues on me. And all I can think about is you me. And all I can think about is you me. And all I can think about is you have no idea what I'm about to do when I have no idea what I'm about to do when I have no idea what I'm about to do when I leave here. leave here. leave here. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; I came there to escape my me to escape &gt;&gt; I came there to escape my me to escape &gt;&gt; I came there to escape my me to escape my problems one last time. And now I've my problems one last time. And now I've my problems one last time. And now I've just got somebody else's problems on me. just got somebody else's problems on me. just got somebody else's problems on me. M. M. M. &gt;&gt; And so I'm just kind of sitting there &gt;&gt; And so I'm just kind of sitting there &gt;&gt; And so I'm just kind of sitting there slamming that Allstar special, like just slamming that Allstar special, like just slamming that Allstar special, like just kind of like trying to get over it, kind of like trying to get over it, kind of like trying to get over it, trying to get out. And then he just I trying to get out. And then he just I trying to get out. And then he just I the only thing I really remember him the only thing I really remember him the only thing I really remember him saying was he was just like, "Man, I saying was he was just like, "Man, I saying was he was just like, "Man, I love my wife, but she doesn't feel the love my wife, but she doesn't feel the love my wife, but she doesn't feel the same about me." same about me." same about me." &gt;&gt; And then he said, "There's no growth in &gt;&gt; And then he said, "There's no growth in &gt;&gt; And then he said, "There's no growth in a relationship if the love isn't a relationship if the love isn't a relationship if the love isn't mutual." And mutual." And mutual." And &gt;&gt; wow, &gt;&gt; wow, &gt;&gt; wow, &gt;&gt; when he said that, it all the time &gt;&gt; when he said that, it all the time &gt;&gt; when he said that, it all the time stopped. And for for the first time in stopped. And for for the first time in stopped. And for for the first time in my life, the 18 in between my head and my life, the 18 in between my head and my life, the 18 in between my head and my heart finally connected. all the head my heart finally connected. all the head my heart finally connected. all the head knowledge I had from church, going to knowledge I had from church, going to knowledge I had from church, going to Christian school, all this stuff, Bible Christian school, all this stuff, Bible Christian school, all this stuff, Bible verses coming in my brain and in my verses coming in my brain and in my verses coming in my brain and in my heart, God speaking to me, revealing his heart, God speaking to me, revealing his heart, God speaking to me, revealing his love to me. On this moment, he didn't love to me. On this moment, he didn't love to me. On this moment, he didn't say anything about Jesus, but God uses say anything about Jesus, but God uses say anything about Jesus, but God uses words. words. words. &gt;&gt; And then I just had this immediate &gt;&gt; And then I just had this immediate &gt;&gt; And then I just had this immediate thought of like maybe I don't know that thought of like maybe I don't know that thought of like maybe I don't know that God loves me because I haven't given God loves me because I haven't given God loves me because I haven't given myself a chance to love him back. You myself a chance to love him back. You myself a chance to love him back. You know, like a lot of times like some of know, like a lot of times like some of know, like a lot of times like some of the best friends I I I have now like at the best friends I I I have now like at the best friends I I I have now like at first like I almost didn't want to give first like I almost didn't want to give first like I almost didn't want to give them the time a day. You know, I was them the time a day. You know, I was them the time a day. You know, I was kind of like, you know, who you know, we kind of like, you know, who you know, we kind of like, you know, who you know, we don't know each other. But the more and don't know each other. But the more and don't know each other. But the more and more I spent time with them, I realized, more I spent time with them, I realized, more I spent time with them, I realized, oh man, I really love who you are. I oh man, I really love who you are. I oh man, I really love who you are. I love your values. Like, I want you to be love your values. Like, I want you to be love your values. Like, I want you to be involved in my life. And so, for that involved in my life. And so, for that involved in my life. And so, for that split second, I thought, well, maybe I split second, I thought, well, maybe I split second, I thought, well, maybe I don't think God loves me because I don't think God loves me because I don't think God loves me because I haven't attempted to love God back and haven't attempted to love God back and haven't attempted to love God back and start friendship. And so, start friendship. And so, start friendship. And so, &gt;&gt; I threw money on the table and just ran &gt;&gt; I threw money on the table and just ran &gt;&gt; I threw money on the table and just ran out crying out crying out crying &gt;&gt; because it was the first time in years &gt;&gt; because it was the first time in years &gt;&gt; because it was the first time in years I'd felt the peace I was looking for in I'd felt the peace I was looking for in I'd felt the peace I was looking for in my depression and anxiety was in that my depression and anxiety was in that my depression and anxiety was in that moment. And moment. And moment. And &gt;&gt; so I just go into my car and I said, &gt;&gt; so I just go into my car and I said, &gt;&gt; so I just go into my car and I said, "All right, Jesus, if you're really "All right, Jesus, if you're really "All right, Jesus, if you're really real, take away my anxiety and real, take away my anxiety and real, take away my anxiety and depression cuz this is the reason that I depression cuz this is the reason that I depression cuz this is the reason that I want to take my life." want to take my life." want to take my life." &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; And &gt;&gt; And &gt;&gt; And I haven't had the crippling anxiety or I haven't had the crippling anxiety or I haven't had the crippling anxiety or depression for years. I had my first depression for years. I had my first depression for years. I had my first anxiety attack since that day like two anxiety attack since that day like two anxiety attack since that day like two weeks ago. weeks ago. weeks ago. &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Really? &gt;&gt; Yeah. But Jesus really took away my &gt;&gt; Yeah. But Jesus really took away my &gt;&gt; Yeah. But Jesus really took away my problem and problem and problem and &gt;&gt; I just didn't It wasn't my story &gt;&gt; I just didn't It wasn't my story &gt;&gt; I just didn't It wasn't my story anymore. Jesus was my story, you know. anymore. Jesus was my story, you know. anymore. Jesus was my story, you know. &gt;&gt; Yeah, man. I one I appreciate you being &gt;&gt; Yeah, man. I one I appreciate you being &gt;&gt; Yeah, man. I one I appreciate you being that transparent and and talking about that transparent and and talking about that transparent and and talking about it like especially like at your age to it like especially like at your age to it like especially like at your age to just be like yo I'm this is it like I'm just be like yo I'm this is it like I'm just be like yo I'm this is it like I'm anxiety depression like I I battled the anxiety depression like I I battled the anxiety depression like I I battled the same things from 15 on you know what I same things from 15 on you know what I same things from 15 on you know what I mean so I think it's it's something with mean so I think it's it's something with mean so I think it's it's something with like like like &gt;&gt; I don't know like it's like guys like oh &gt;&gt; I don't know like it's like guys like oh &gt;&gt; I don't know like it's like guys like oh you're going to depend on me you know you're going to depend on me you know you're going to depend on me you know what I mean I'm not just going to let what I mean I'm not just going to let what I mean I'm not just going to let you live out here and be like you got it you live out here and be like you got it you live out here and be like you got it together like no you're going to have to together like no you're going to have to together like no you're going to have to continue to depend on me for that you continue to depend on me for that you continue to depend on me for that you know know know &gt;&gt; consistency what when I listen to you &gt;&gt; consistency what when I listen to you &gt;&gt; consistency what when I listen to you even now as you as you're telling your even now as you as you're telling your even now as you as you're telling your story like you're a gifted communicator story like you're a gifted communicator story like you're a gifted communicator like a gifted storyteller. You're gifted like a gifted storyteller. You're gifted like a gifted storyteller. You're gifted at talking to people like you know it's at talking to people like you know it's at talking to people like you know it's like man you you just seem comfortable. like man you you just seem comfortable. like man you you just seem comfortable. Is there did you grow up listening to Is there did you grow up listening to Is there did you grow up listening to somebody preach and teach or communicate somebody preach and teach or communicate somebody preach and teach or communicate or is this like how did you how did this or is this like how did you how did this or is this like how did you how did this develop? I've always loved to write. I I develop? I've always loved to write. I I develop? I've always loved to write. I I took a lot of writing classes in high took a lot of writing classes in high took a lot of writing classes in high school just because I love phrasing school just because I love phrasing school just because I love phrasing things. Like I love getting the things. Like I love getting the things. Like I love getting the opportunity to package things in such a opportunity to package things in such a opportunity to package things in such a unique way and and still give it power unique way and and still give it power unique way and and still give it power and emphasis. Um but man there's so many and emphasis. Um but man there's so many and emphasis. Um but man there's so many preachers I love, man. I mean like when preachers I love, man. I mean like when preachers I love, man. I mean like when I turned 17 and I became a Christian, I I turned 17 and I became a Christian, I I turned 17 and I became a Christian, I was I was listening to anybody and was I was listening to anybody and was I was listening to anybody and everybody, you know, but man, I love everybody, you know, but man, I love everybody, you know, but man, I love Francis Chan. Y'all's episode blessed me Francis Chan. Y'all's episode blessed me Francis Chan. Y'all's episode blessed me a ton. I love Francis, you know. We love a ton. I love Francis, you know. We love a ton. I love Francis, you know. We love Pastor Philip Anthony. We love Pastor Pastor Philip Anthony. We love Pastor Pastor Philip Anthony. We love Pastor Phillip. We love um David Platt. I love Phillip. We love um David Platt. I love Phillip. We love um David Platt. I love all those guys, you know. Like so, you all those guys, you know. Like so, you all those guys, you know. Like so, you know, I love know, I love know, I love &gt;&gt; You like You like the heavyweights. &gt;&gt; You like You like the heavyweights. &gt;&gt; You like You like the heavyweights. &gt;&gt; I love Oh, bro. I I like getting slapped &gt;&gt; I love Oh, bro. I I like getting slapped &gt;&gt; I love Oh, bro. I I like getting slapped when I'm when I'm listening to a sermon, when I'm when I'm listening to a sermon, when I'm when I'm listening to a sermon, you know? I like getting rebuked every you know? I like getting rebuked every you know? I like getting rebuked every five minutes. So So that that that's five minutes. So So that that that's five minutes. So So that that that's that's how I like it. But that's how I like it. But that's how I like it. But &gt;&gt; but yeah, I mean I I just love &gt;&gt; but yeah, I mean I I just love &gt;&gt; but yeah, I mean I I just love &gt;&gt; I I don't know. And and you know, isn't &gt;&gt; I I don't know. And and you know, isn't &gt;&gt; I I don't know. And and you know, isn't it so much easier to just brag about it so much easier to just brag about it so much easier to just brag about someone else? someone else? someone else? &gt;&gt; Like your job is to brag about someone &gt;&gt; Like your job is to brag about someone &gt;&gt; Like your job is to brag about someone else in your music. My job is to brag else in your music. My job is to brag else in your music. My job is to brag about someone else and what he's done in about someone else and what he's done in about someone else and what he's done in my life. So like I feel like that that's my life. So like I feel like that that's my life. So like I feel like that that's where another aspect of comfortability where another aspect of comfortability where another aspect of comfortability comes from is just I'm not comes from is just I'm not comes from is just I'm not &gt;&gt; having to worry about performing right &gt;&gt; having to worry about performing right &gt;&gt; having to worry about performing right now. I'm just talking about what God's now. I'm just talking about what God's now. I'm just talking about what God's done in my life. done in my life. done in my life. &gt;&gt; That's really good. That's powerful, &gt;&gt; That's really good. That's powerful, &gt;&gt; That's really good. That's powerful, bro. I I'm like, it's funny to me bro. I I'm like, it's funny to me bro. I I'm like, it's funny to me because there's a lot of Christians because there's a lot of Christians because there's a lot of Christians like, like, like, you know, who would definitely, you know, who would definitely, you know, who would definitely, you know, be willing to sit down with you know, be willing to sit down with you know, be willing to sit down with Adam 22 and just like, Adam 22 and just like, Adam 22 and just like, you know, have these conversations. At you know, have these conversations. At you know, have these conversations. At 21 years old, I'm I'm just seeing the 21 years old, I'm I'm just seeing the 21 years old, I'm I'm just seeing the spaces and places that you navigate and spaces and places that you navigate and spaces and places that you navigate and like, you know, the way you move and I like, you know, the way you move and I like, you know, the way you move and I guess, guess, guess, you know, like like I was saying, you you know, like like I was saying, you you know, like like I was saying, you had a little Tony on there like you're had a little Tony on there like you're had a little Tony on there like you're you're talking to people who folks would you're talking to people who folks would you're talking to people who folks would be like, be like, be like, &gt;&gt; "What's going on here? What's going on?" &gt;&gt; "What's going on here? What's going on?" &gt;&gt; "What's going on here? What's going on?" Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And I'm curious for you, &gt;&gt; And I'm curious for you, &gt;&gt; And I'm curious for you, &gt;&gt; what makes you want to invite them? What &gt;&gt; what makes you want to invite them? What &gt;&gt; what makes you want to invite them? What is what what's that about? is what what's that about? is what what's that about? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's that story &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's that story &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's that story in Matthew 9 when Jesus is sitting at in Matthew 9 when Jesus is sitting at in Matthew 9 when Jesus is sitting at the table with the tax collectors, the the table with the tax collectors, the the table with the tax collectors, the prostitutes, the sinners, and then the prostitutes, the sinners, and then the prostitutes, the sinners, and then the religious people show up and he goes, religious people show up and he goes, religious people show up and he goes, "What is a guy like that doing with "What is a guy like that doing with "What is a guy like that doing with people like that?" people like that?" people like that?" &gt;&gt; That's their response. And but my &gt;&gt; That's their response. And but my &gt;&gt; That's their response. And but my favorite thing about that story that I favorite thing about that story that I favorite thing about that story that I love is Jesus isn't looking for the back love is Jesus isn't looking for the back love is Jesus isn't looking for the back door trying to sneak out when the door trying to sneak out when the door trying to sneak out when the Pharisees show up. He's like, "Oh, Pharisees show up. He's like, "Oh, Pharisees show up. He's like, "Oh, shoot." Like, "They're here. I got to shoot." Like, "They're here. I got to shoot." Like, "They're here. I got to get out." He doesn't do that. get out." He doesn't do that. get out." He doesn't do that. &gt;&gt; Rather, he's like, "Hey, it's the sick &gt;&gt; Rather, he's like, "Hey, it's the sick &gt;&gt; Rather, he's like, "Hey, it's the sick that need a doctor, not the healthy." that need a doctor, not the healthy." that need a doctor, not the healthy." Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And so I think we we sometimes as &gt;&gt; And so I think we we sometimes as &gt;&gt; And so I think we we sometimes as Christians can get in this like in this Christians can get in this like in this Christians can get in this like in this weird funk where like now that we've weird funk where like now that we've weird funk where like now that we've been saved, we kind of have this like been saved, we kind of have this like been saved, we kind of have this like mentality. I don't know that was that mentality. I don't know that was that mentality. I don't know that was that was definitely me at first. Like when I was definitely me at first. Like when I was definitely me at first. Like when I first became a Christian, I'm just first became a Christian, I'm just first became a Christian, I'm just expecting all my friends just to be all expecting all my friends just to be all expecting all my friends just to be all in because I went all in. And then I in because I went all in. And then I in because I went all in. And then I realized, man, everybody takes a little realized, man, everybody takes a little realized, man, everybody takes a little bit of different time and things like bit of different time and things like bit of different time and things like that. And then some people's story is that. And then some people's story is that. And then some people's story is different. And so there are people at different. And so there are people at different. And so there are people at the end of the day, Adam 22 is of the the end of the day, Adam 22 is of the the end of the day, Adam 22 is of the same value as me. The same way the same value as me. The same way the same value as me. The same way the homeless man has the same value as Bill homeless man has the same value as Bill homeless man has the same value as Bill Gates. It's not the amount of money in Gates. It's not the amount of money in Gates. It's not the amount of money in their bank account that makes one more their bank account that makes one more their bank account that makes one more valuable than the other. It's just who valuable than the other. It's just who valuable than the other. It's just who they are. And they're made in the image they are. And they're made in the image they are. And they're made in the image of God. Yeah. That's the price God puts of God. Yeah. That's the price God puts of God. Yeah. That's the price God puts on their life as his own life. And so on their life as his own life. And so on their life as his own life. And so when I look at someone like Adam 22, I when I look at someone like Adam 22, I when I look at someone like Adam 22, I look at him, yeah, sure, maybe he's look at him, yeah, sure, maybe he's look at him, yeah, sure, maybe he's doing his thing, but like before I was a doing his thing, but like before I was a doing his thing, but like before I was a Christian, man, I was enslaved to Christian, man, I was enslaved to Christian, man, I was enslaved to pornography. I was enslaved to the very pornography. I was enslaved to the very pornography. I was enslaved to the very thing that he that he's actively doing thing that he that he's actively doing thing that he that he's actively doing right now. And so that gives me a heart right now. And so that gives me a heart right now. And so that gives me a heart where it's like, okay, a thing that you where it's like, okay, a thing that you where it's like, okay, a thing that you think is perfectly fine in society. I've think is perfectly fine in society. I've think is perfectly fine in society. I've had the opposite end of it where it's had the opposite end of it where it's had the opposite end of it where it's like, man, it hurt me. like, man, it hurt me. like, man, it hurt me. &gt;&gt; And so like, let's talk about it. And &gt;&gt; And so like, let's talk about it. And &gt;&gt; And so like, let's talk about it. And what a lot of people don't even know what a lot of people don't even know what a lot of people don't even know about Adam is like, man, so many about Adam is like, man, so many about Adam is like, man, so many Christians were bashing Adam. And then Christians were bashing Adam. And then Christians were bashing Adam. And then like after we got done, we gave him like like after we got done, we gave him like like after we got done, we gave him like off camera, I we gave him a a Bible. I off camera, I we gave him a a Bible. I off camera, I we gave him a a Bible. I said, "Hey, bro. You want a Bible?" He's said, "Hey, bro. You want a Bible?" He's said, "Hey, bro. You want a Bible?" He's like, "Yeah, man." Like, "Dude, I don't like, "Yeah, man." Like, "Dude, I don't like, "Yeah, man." Like, "Dude, I don't even own a Bible. Like I've always even own a Bible. Like I've always even own a Bible. Like I've always wanted a Bible. No one's ever He's like wanted a Bible. No one's ever He's like wanted a Bible. No one's ever He's like giving and I'm thinking like we got so giving and I'm thinking like we got so giving and I'm thinking like we got so many Christians slamming Adam 22 many Christians slamming Adam 22 many Christians slamming Adam 22 &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; when he doesn't even have a Bible like &gt;&gt; when he doesn't even have a Bible like &gt;&gt; when he doesn't even have a Bible like we're slamming him more than we are we're slamming him more than we are we're slamming him more than we are praying for him. And a lot of times like praying for him. And a lot of times like praying for him. And a lot of times like you know even Adam like he needs love. you know even Adam like he needs love. you know even Adam like he needs love. Lil Tony man turning to Jesus like Lil Tony man turning to Jesus like Lil Tony man turning to Jesus like needing some love. Everybody's needing needing some love. Everybody's needing needing some love. Everybody's needing love. And so love. And so love. And so &gt;&gt; man I just people I love people man. You &gt;&gt; man I just people I love people man. You &gt;&gt; man I just people I love people man. You know what's funny is growth and maturity. A lot of times growth and maturity. A lot of times growth and maturity. A lot of times people think it's about time, right? people think it's about time, right? people think it's about time, right? They say like, "Oh, They say like, "Oh, They say like, "Oh, &gt;&gt; time will mature you." And for sure time &gt;&gt; time will mature you." And for sure time &gt;&gt; time will mature you." And for sure time can mature people. But sometimes, man, can mature people. But sometimes, man, can mature people. But sometimes, man, there's like a supernatural maturity there's like a supernatural maturity there's like a supernatural maturity that God allows to happen in people, that God allows to happen in people, that God allows to happen in people, especially when their hands are on the especially when their hands are on the especially when their hands are on the plow, like when they're in it. And it's plow, like when they're in it. And it's plow, like when they're in it. And it's funny like my buddy Trip Lee and you are funny like my buddy Trip Lee and you are funny like my buddy Trip Lee and you are y'all remind me of each other because y'all remind me of each other because y'all remind me of each other because like we found him at 16, you know what I like we found him at 16, you know what I like we found him at 16, you know what I mean? And he just took off like a mean? And he just took off like a mean? And he just took off like a lightning bolt. He was hungry for the lightning bolt. He was hungry for the lightning bolt. He was hungry for the word, hungry for truth. And by like 21 word, hungry for truth. And by like 21 word, hungry for truth. And by like 21 this was like dang, like he would say this was like dang, like he would say this was like dang, like he would say some profound things. And I'm listening some profound things. And I'm listening some profound things. And I'm listening to you and I'm like you're barely out to you and I'm like you're barely out to you and I'm like you're barely out your teens, bro. But you but you have a your teens, bro. But you but you have a your teens, bro. But you but you have a lot of wisdom. And I I think the wisdom lot of wisdom. And I I think the wisdom lot of wisdom. And I I think the wisdom is not knowledge cuz knowledge is just is not knowledge cuz knowledge is just is not knowledge cuz knowledge is just knowing things. But you have wisdom and knowing things. But you have wisdom and knowing things. But you have wisdom and it's because you're you're you're it's because you're you're you're it's because you're you're you're activating the things you're learning. activating the things you're learning. activating the things you're learning. &gt;&gt; You know what I mean? And that's what's &gt;&gt; You know what I mean? And that's what's &gt;&gt; You know what I mean? And that's what's making it like this this man is like making it like this this man is like making it like this this man is like &gt;&gt; wise beyond his years, but not just &gt;&gt; wise beyond his years, but not just &gt;&gt; wise beyond his years, but not just because he learned some things, but it's because he learned some things, but it's because he learned some things, but it's because he's learning and applying and because he's learning and applying and because he's learning and applying and getting actual experience. It's super getting actual experience. It's super getting actual experience. It's super encouraging just to hear you you talk encouraging just to hear you you talk encouraging just to hear you you talk about it because about it because about it because generally a 21 22 year old is very generally a 21 22 year old is very generally a 21 22 year old is very zealous and thinking like it's me zealous and thinking like it's me zealous and thinking like it's me against them you know us against the against them you know us against the against them you know us against the world and you're like no it's us for the world and you're like no it's us for the world and you're like no it's us for the world like Jesus died for the world so world like Jesus died for the world so world like Jesus died for the world so I'm here for them and that's crazy like I'm here for them and that's crazy like I'm here for them and that's crazy like it's a unique whatever you got keep that it's a unique whatever you got keep that it's a unique whatever you got keep that bro bro bro &gt;&gt; thanks for the encouragement &gt;&gt; thanks for the encouragement &gt;&gt; thanks for the encouragement &gt;&gt; keep that bro I'm like it's funny just &gt;&gt; keep that bro I'm like it's funny just &gt;&gt; keep that bro I'm like it's funny just to just to hear it like do you feel like to just to hear it like do you feel like to just to hear it like do you feel like amongst your peers, do you feel like amongst your peers, do you feel like amongst your peers, do you feel like a leader amongst them or do you feel a leader amongst them or do you feel a leader amongst them or do you feel like there's other people who are like, like there's other people who are like, like there's other people who are like, "Yeah, you got it. We're we're we got "Yeah, you got it. We're we're we got "Yeah, you got it. We're we're we got this. We're in this together." Like, how this. We're in this together." Like, how this. We're in this together." Like, how are you feeling like as a part of your are you feeling like as a part of your are you feeling like as a part of your generation as you're navigating all generation as you're navigating all generation as you're navigating all this? this? this? &gt;&gt; I feel the same as everybody else. Okay. &gt;&gt; I feel the same as everybody else. Okay. &gt;&gt; I feel the same as everybody else. Okay. I don't I don't I don't I don't feel any I don't I don't I don't I don't feel any I don't I don't I don't I don't feel any any more like I don't feel more special any more like I don't feel more special any more like I don't feel more special or more or more or more &gt;&gt; anything different. And I just I mean &gt;&gt; anything different. And I just I mean &gt;&gt; anything different. And I just I mean everything that we're doing now I was everything that we're doing now I was everything that we're doing now I was doing the moment I got saved. doing the moment I got saved. doing the moment I got saved. &gt;&gt; Like when I turned 17 I would run up to &gt;&gt; Like when I turned 17 I would run up to &gt;&gt; Like when I turned 17 I would run up to people and say Jesus loves you and then people and say Jesus loves you and then people and say Jesus loves you and then run before they could respond because I run before they could respond because I run before they could respond because I didn't know the answer to their didn't know the answer to their didn't know the answer to their questions. Like you know I I'm this is questions. Like you know I I'm this is questions. Like you know I I'm this is all just something I just love talking all just something I just love talking all just something I just love talking to people. I love sharing Jesus. And to people. I love sharing Jesus. And to people. I love sharing Jesus. And people got different gifts. You know people got different gifts. You know people got different gifts. You know some people are good at shephering some people are good at shephering some people are good at shephering people and leading people. Some people people and leading people. Some people people and leading people. Some people are preachers. Some people are teachers. are preachers. Some people are teachers. are preachers. Some people are teachers. Some people are pastors. Some people are Some people are pastors. Some people are Some people are pastors. Some people are prophet. You know prophet. You know prophet. You know &gt;&gt; man you guys operate in your gifts. I &gt;&gt; man you guys operate in your gifts. I &gt;&gt; man you guys operate in your gifts. I want to work together. I mean that want to work together. I mean that want to work together. I mean that that's the that's the goal is to work that's the that's the goal is to work that's the that's the goal is to work together. And so basically I'm just like together. And so basically I'm just like together. And so basically I'm just like Bryce is going to operate in the gift Bryce is going to operate in the gift Bryce is going to operate in the gift that God's given him and hopefully that God's given him and hopefully that God's given him and hopefully that'll compliment everybody else that's that'll compliment everybody else that's that'll compliment everybody else that's running hard so that we can just reap running hard so that we can just reap running hard so that we can just reap souls for the kingdom. souls for the kingdom. souls for the kingdom. &gt;&gt; Bro, one day you're going to be older. &gt;&gt; Bro, one day you're going to be older. &gt;&gt; Bro, one day you're going to be older. Like you're going to be at like my big Like you're going to be at like my big Like you're going to be at like my big old age. It's funny cuz I now I'm old age. It's funny cuz I now I'm old age. It's funny cuz I now I'm feeling old lowkey. This is why I'm feeling old lowkey. This is why I'm feeling old lowkey. This is why I'm feeling old. I'm going tell you why. feeling old. I'm going tell you why. feeling old. I'm going tell you why. Because I'm proud. I'm like sitting here Because I'm proud. I'm like sitting here Because I'm proud. I'm like sitting here like man I like this guy man. I'm proud like man I like this guy man. I'm proud like man I like this guy man. I'm proud of him. Good stuff. And I'm like, "Oh, of him. Good stuff. And I'm like, "Oh, of him. Good stuff. And I'm like, "Oh, this is how older people used to feel this is how older people used to feel this is how older people used to feel about me." You know what I'm saying? about me." You know what I'm saying? about me." You know what I'm saying? Like, I've gotten to that place where Like, I've gotten to that place where Like, I've gotten to that place where I'm listening to you. I'm like, I'm listening to you. I'm like, I'm listening to you. I'm like, &gt;&gt; "Oh, man. So, I'm so proud of you, bro, &gt;&gt; "Oh, man. So, I'm so proud of you, bro, &gt;&gt; "Oh, man. So, I'm so proud of you, bro, like it's so crazy, man." But no, that's like it's so crazy, man." But no, that's like it's so crazy, man." But no, that's dope, man. Um, I want to know I I want dope, man. Um, I want to know I I want dope, man. Um, I want to know I I want to show you something. I want to know, to show you something. I want to know, to show you something. I want to know, have you seen this? Cuz like this is a have you seen this? Cuz like this is a have you seen this? Cuz like this is a this is Gen Z is an interesting this is Gen Z is an interesting this is Gen Z is an interesting generation. I'm still trying to uh, you generation. I'm still trying to uh, you generation. I'm still trying to uh, you know, understand the world that Jenz know, understand the world that Jenz know, understand the world that Jenz lives in. But I want to know, is this lives in. But I want to know, is this lives in. But I want to know, is this something that you've seen or something that you've seen or something that you've seen or experienced out here in this world? I'm experienced out here in this world? I'm experienced out here in this world? I'm going to show you this clip. going to show you this clip. going to show you this clip. &gt;&gt; All right, cool. &gt;&gt; All right, cool. &gt;&gt; All right, cool. &gt;&gt; Check this out. &gt;&gt; Check this out. &gt;&gt; Check this out. [Music] [Music] [Music] &gt;&gt; So, &gt;&gt; So, &gt;&gt; So, &gt;&gt; I didn't know how to cut it off right &gt;&gt; I didn't know how to cut it off right &gt;&gt; I didn't know how to cut it off right there. there. there. &gt;&gt; So, uh I don't know if you heard that, &gt;&gt; So, uh I don't know if you heard that, &gt;&gt; So, uh I don't know if you heard that, the Jesus glow trend. the Jesus glow trend. the Jesus glow trend. &gt;&gt; Uhhuh. &gt;&gt; Uhhuh. &gt;&gt; Uhhuh. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, you heard of it? &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, you heard of it? &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, you heard of it? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, &gt;&gt; Okay. So, &gt;&gt; Okay. So, &gt;&gt; so it's like for people who don't know, &gt;&gt; so it's like for people who don't know, &gt;&gt; so it's like for people who don't know, it's basically like the trend is like it's basically like the trend is like it's basically like the trend is like people in their old life and then they people in their old life and then they people in their old life and then they show how wild it was and then like show how wild it was and then like show how wild it was and then like they're showing the new life in Christ. they're showing the new life in Christ. they're showing the new life in Christ. You know what I mean? And it's kind of You know what I mean? And it's kind of You know what I mean? And it's kind of like the like the like the non-Christians are critiquing it, saying non-Christians are critiquing it, saying non-Christians are critiquing it, saying like the glow is like the glow is like the glow is like performative, like you're just like performative, like you're just like performative, like you're just trying to show off like how you're trying to show off like how you're trying to show off like how you're better now or you're better than better now or you're better than better now or you're better than everyone else now. And um yeah, I'm just everyone else now. And um yeah, I'm just everyone else now. And um yeah, I'm just curious like what is your perspective on curious like what is your perspective on curious like what is your perspective on that? You know what I'm saying? Like that? You know what I'm saying? Like that? You know what I'm saying? Like &gt;&gt; when when I watch that video, that &gt;&gt; when when I watch that video, that &gt;&gt; when when I watch that video, that encourages me. encourages me. encourages me. &gt;&gt; I mean, you have two totally opposite &gt;&gt; I mean, you have two totally opposite &gt;&gt; I mean, you have two totally opposite lifestyles before and after. lifestyles before and after. lifestyles before and after. &gt;&gt; I mean, that's that's the blood of &gt;&gt; I mean, that's that's the blood of &gt;&gt; I mean, that's that's the blood of Jesus, man. That's what Jesus does in Jesus, man. That's what Jesus does in Jesus, man. That's what Jesus does in someone's life. I think I think there's someone's life. I think I think there's someone's life. I think I think there's this tendency to not like First this tendency to not like First this tendency to not like First Corinthians says, "Love hopes the best Corinthians says, "Love hopes the best Corinthians says, "Love hopes the best in people." Love believes the best in in people." Love believes the best in in people." Love believes the best in people. And there's this tendency to people. And there's this tendency to people. And there's this tendency to just not believe the best in people. Oh, just not believe the best in people. Oh, just not believe the best in people. Oh, that's fake. Oh, that's this. where that's fake. Oh, that's this. where that's fake. Oh, that's this. where that's at. But even Paul says whether that's at. But even Paul says whether that's at. But even Paul says whether the gospel is being preached in vain or the gospel is being preached in vain or the gospel is being preached in vain or the gospel is being preached in truth. the gospel is being preached in truth. the gospel is being preached in truth. Praise God that the gospel is being Praise God that the gospel is being Praise God that the gospel is being preached. And so, you know, are there preached. And so, you know, are there preached. And so, you know, are there people out there that probably do the people out there that probably do the people out there that probably do the trend, not for the sake of their heart? trend, not for the sake of their heart? trend, not for the sake of their heart? &gt;&gt; Sure. Are there people that are doing &gt;&gt; Sure. Are there people that are doing &gt;&gt; Sure. Are there people that are doing there because God's done a heart change there because God's done a heart change there because God's done a heart change and they want to show this is my God. and they want to show this is my God. and they want to show this is my God. This is how powerful my God is. This is how powerful my God is. This is how powerful my God is. Absolutely. Either way, Absolutely. Either way, Absolutely. Either way, &gt;&gt; it's still bringing people to know, man, &gt;&gt; it's still bringing people to know, man, &gt;&gt; it's still bringing people to know, man, there's a God out there that can do there's a God out there that can do there's a God out there that can do radical change. And that that's what radical change. And that that's what radical change. And that that's what encourages me. encourages me. encourages me. &gt;&gt; All right. So, when I'm on top of my &gt;&gt; All right. So, when I'm on top of my &gt;&gt; All right. So, when I'm on top of my hydration, you know what I notice? I hydration, you know what I notice? I hydration, you know what I notice? I noticed that everything's working noticed that everything's working noticed that everything's working better. My mood, my energy, my focus, my better. My mood, my energy, my focus, my better. My mood, my energy, my focus, my skin. skin. skin. Just getting fluids every day is not Just getting fluids every day is not Just getting fluids every day is not always easy. So, that's why I've been always easy. So, that's why I've been always easy. So, that's why I've been loving Drip Drop. I'm serious. I use it. loving Drip Drop. I'm serious. I use it. loving Drip Drop. I'm serious. I use it. This is not just me saying something. This is not just me saying something. This is not just me saying something. All right. What Drip Drop is is a doctor All right. What Drip Drop is is a doctor All right. What Drip Drop is is a doctor developed, proven fast hydration. And developed, proven fast hydration. And developed, proven fast hydration. And what it does is it uses a precise ratio what it does is it uses a precise ratio what it does is it uses a precise ratio of sodium electrolytes and glucose for of sodium electrolytes and glucose for of sodium electrolytes and glucose for rapid fluid absorption. What it delivers rapid fluid absorption. What it delivers rapid fluid absorption. What it delivers is three times the electrolytes and half is three times the electrolytes and half is three times the electrolytes and half the sugar versus all those other leading the sugar versus all those other leading the sugar versus all those other leading sports drinks out there. So, I'm trying sports drinks out there. So, I'm trying sports drinks out there. So, I'm trying to tell you, you feel the difference to tell you, you feel the difference to tell you, you feel the difference fast. It's less fatigue. It's more fast. It's less fatigue. It's more fast. It's less fatigue. It's more focused. It's no midday crash, which I'm focused. It's no midday crash, which I'm focused. It's no midday crash, which I'm sick of. And Drip Drop is a breakthrough sick of. And Drip Drop is a breakthrough sick of. And Drip Drop is a breakthrough hydration formula. It's backed by hydration formula. It's backed by hydration formula. It's backed by science, people, which is why it's science, people, which is why it's science, people, which is why it's trusted by firefighters, medical trusted by firefighters, medical trusted by firefighters, medical professionals, over 90% of top pro and professionals, over 90% of top pro and professionals, over 90% of top pro and college sports teams, and me. There's a college sports teams, and me. There's a college sports teams, and me. There's a lot of electrolyte powders on the lot of electrolyte powders on the lot of electrolyte powders on the market. I still haven't found one that market. I still haven't found one that market. I still haven't found one that works as well or tastes as good as Drip works as well or tastes as good as Drip works as well or tastes as good as Drip Drop. So, I'm just telling you I like Drop. So, I'm just telling you I like Drop. So, I'm just telling you I like the watermelon flavor. Do not judge me. the watermelon flavor. Do not judge me. the watermelon flavor. Do not judge me. It's the flavor that I like, but it's It's the flavor that I like, but it's It's the flavor that I like, but it's great. I used it this morning. So, right great. I used it this morning. So, right great. I used it this morning. So, right now, Drip Drop's offering podcast now, Drip Drop's offering podcast now, Drip Drop's offering podcast listeners 20% off your first order. Go listeners 20% off your first order. Go listeners 20% off your first order. Go to dripdrop.com. Use my promo code LCRA. to dripdrop.com. Use my promo code LCRA. to dripdrop.com. Use my promo code LCRA. Get your 20% off. All right. Get your 20% off. All right. Get your 20% off. All right. Dripdrop.com. Promo code LCRA. 20% off. Dripdrop.com. Promo code LCRA. 20% off. Dripdrop.com. Promo code LCRA. 20% off. Stock up before this heat gets to you. Stock up before this heat gets to you. Stock up before this heat gets to you. All right. Dripdrop.com. Use the promo All right. Dripdrop.com. Use the promo All right. Dripdrop.com. Use the promo code LCRA right now. They say time waits code LCRA right now. They say time waits code LCRA right now. They say time waits for no one and neither should your for no one and neither should your for no one and neither should your payday. Keep your money in the direction payday. Keep your money in the direction payday. Keep your money in the direction of your dreams. Get Earn. Listen, Earn of your dreams. Get Earn. Listen, Earn of your dreams. Get Earn. Listen, Earn In is an app that lets you access your In is an app that lets you access your In is an app that lets you access your pay as you earn it up to $150 a day with pay as you earn it up to $150 a day with pay as you earn it up to $150 a day with a max of $750 a max of $750 a max of $750 between paydays. So, download the between paydays. So, download the between paydays. So, download the Earning app and just add your info. Earning app and just add your info. Earning app and just add your info. Then, you start accessing your pay as Then, you start accessing your pay as Then, you start accessing your pay as you work. and leave an optional tip to you work. and leave an optional tip to you work. and leave an optional tip to help keep the app running for everybody help keep the app running for everybody help keep the app running for everybody else. Any money you access plus tips are else. Any money you access plus tips are else. Any money you access plus tips are automatically repaid from your next automatically repaid from your next automatically repaid from your next paycheck. I'm just trying to tell you, paycheck. I'm just trying to tell you, paycheck. I'm just trying to tell you, sometimes you get in a jam, you know the sometimes you get in a jam, you know the sometimes you get in a jam, you know the money's coming, you don't have it in money's coming, you don't have it in money's coming, you don't have it in this exact moment, you hit earn in, this exact moment, you hit earn in, this exact moment, you hit earn in, they're going to give you up to $750. they're going to give you up to $750. they're going to give you up to $750. Now you can get it done and when your Now you can get it done and when your Now you can get it done and when your check comes in, you pay them back. It's check comes in, you pay them back. It's check comes in, you pay them back. It's no big deal. And you leave a tip. That's no big deal. And you leave a tip. That's no big deal. And you leave a tip. That's all you got to do. That's the cost. Just all you got to do. That's the cost. Just all you got to do. That's the cost. Just leave a tip. trying to tell you your leave a tip. trying to tell you your leave a tip. trying to tell you your gas, your bills, your groceries, a gas, your bills, your groceries, a gas, your bills, your groceries, a special night out with the family, that special night out with the family, that special night out with the family, that date you want to take somebody to, that date you want to take somebody to, that date you want to take somebody to, that last minute gift for a loved one, that last minute gift for a loved one, that last minute gift for a loved one, that trip to the vet cuz the dog had that trip to the vet cuz the dog had that trip to the vet cuz the dog had that issue, rent. I'm just trying to tell issue, rent. I'm just trying to tell issue, rent. I'm just trying to tell you, all these things can be overly you, all these things can be overly you, all these things can be overly expensive in the moment and you need expensive in the moment and you need expensive in the moment and you need help. So download Earn In today. E A R N help. So download Earn In today. E A R N help. So download Earn In today. E A R N I N. Get that in the Google Play or the I N. Get that in the Google Play or the I N. Get that in the Google Play or the App Store right now. Now, when you App Store right now. Now, when you App Store right now. Now, when you download the earning app, type in the download the earning app, type in the download the earning app, type in the deep end with Larae. The Deep End with deep end with Larae. The Deep End with deep end with Larae. The Deep End with Larae. Put that under podcast. So, when Larae. Put that under podcast. So, when Larae. Put that under podcast. So, when you sign up, it's going to give a lot of you sign up, it's going to give a lot of you sign up, it's going to give a lot of help to the people you love. The Deep help to the people you love. The Deep help to the people you love. The Deep End with LCra under podcast. And Earnin End with LCra under podcast. And Earnin End with LCra under podcast. And Earnin is a financial technology company. It's is a financial technology company. It's is a financial technology company. It's not a bank. Access limits are based on not a bank. Access limits are based on not a bank. Access limits are based on your earnings and risk factors. Standard your earnings and risk factors. Standard your earnings and risk factors. Standard cash outs take one to two business days cash outs take one to two business days cash outs take one to two business days with no mandatory fees. Expedited with no mandatory fees. Expedited with no mandatory fees. Expedited transfers are available for a fee, and transfers are available for a fee, and transfers are available for a fee, and tips are voluntary and don't affect the tips are voluntary and don't affect the tips are voluntary and don't affect the service. It's available in select service. It's available in select service. It's available in select states. Terms and restrictions apply. states. Terms and restrictions apply. states. Terms and restrictions apply. Visit earnin.com for full details. Visit earnin.com for full details. Visit earnin.com for full details. Download Earnin now. Take control of Download Earnin now. Take control of Download Earnin now. Take control of your pay. Yeah. So, so like my your pay. Yeah. So, so like my your pay. Yeah. So, so like my generation, man, we we grew up and like generation, man, we we grew up and like generation, man, we we grew up and like the generation before us didn't have the the generation before us didn't have the the generation before us didn't have the internet. They didn't know anything internet. They didn't know anything internet. They didn't know anything about the internet. We grew up with the about the internet. We grew up with the about the internet. We grew up with the internet forever. We just it's it's part internet forever. We just it's it's part internet forever. We just it's it's part of our world, right? of our world, right? of our world, right? &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; There's good and bad about it for my &gt;&gt; There's good and bad about it for my &gt;&gt; There's good and bad about it for my generation. Like the good part is we use generation. Like the good part is we use generation. Like the good part is we use the internet for lots of amazing things. the internet for lots of amazing things. the internet for lots of amazing things. The bad part is like there's porn, The bad part is like there's porn, The bad part is like there's porn, there's hate crimes, there's all kinds there's hate crimes, there's all kinds there's hate crimes, there's all kinds of crazy stuff. of crazy stuff. of crazy stuff. &gt;&gt; For sure. &gt;&gt; For sure. &gt;&gt; For sure. &gt;&gt; Y'all's generation has always known &gt;&gt; Y'all's generation has always known &gt;&gt; Y'all's generation has always known social media. It's just been a thing for social media. It's just been a thing for social media. It's just been a thing for y'all. y'all. y'all. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And on one side of it, it's like &gt;&gt; And on one side of it, it's like &gt;&gt; And on one side of it, it's like you can do great things. Like people you can do great things. Like people you can do great things. Like people watch your videos and are super watch your videos and are super watch your videos and are super encouraged by it. encouraged by it. encouraged by it. &gt;&gt; But then on the flip side, I guess I'm &gt;&gt; But then on the flip side, I guess I'm &gt;&gt; But then on the flip side, I guess I'm curious. Do people critique you like, curious. Do people critique you like, curious. Do people critique you like, "Yo, this is a serious moment. Why are "Yo, this is a serious moment. Why are "Yo, this is a serious moment. Why are you filming it?" Your generation films you filming it?" Your generation films you filming it?" Your generation films everything, right? Like, "Oh, this is everything, right? Like, "Oh, this is everything, right? Like, "Oh, this is serious. Why would you why are you serious. Why would you why are you serious. Why would you why are you filming this?" Like, how what what is filming this?" Like, how what what is filming this?" Like, how what what is your thoughts on it? How do you respond? your thoughts on it? How do you respond? your thoughts on it? How do you respond? Especially for older generation just Especially for older generation just Especially for older generation just doesn't. It's like what what's happening doesn't. It's like what what's happening doesn't. It's like what what's happening right now? right now? right now? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I have a heart for people &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I have a heart for people &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I have a heart for people that grew up in like their version of that grew up in like their version of that grew up in like their version of the internet and film and stuff was all the internet and film and stuff was all the internet and film and stuff was all fake. Like MTV, reality shows like I I I fake. Like MTV, reality shows like I I I fake. Like MTV, reality shows like I I I understand that. Like I I get that, you understand that. Like I I get that, you understand that. Like I I get that, you know? I think there's the other the know? I think there's the other the know? I think there's the other the contrary to it where it's like, yeah, contrary to it where it's like, yeah, contrary to it where it's like, yeah, but there's real life stuff that's going but there's real life stuff that's going but there's real life stuff that's going down that's being documented for the down that's being documented for the down that's being documented for the glory of God. And glory of God. And glory of God. And &gt;&gt; like the only reason we picked up the &gt;&gt; like the only reason we picked up the &gt;&gt; like the only reason we picked up the camera was because I felt like God gave camera was because I felt like God gave camera was because I felt like God gave me a dream. I had a dream at night where me a dream. I had a dream at night where me a dream. I had a dream at night where God spoke to me about what we're doing God spoke to me about what we're doing God spoke to me about what we're doing now. And Matthew chapter 6 says, "Don't now. And Matthew chapter 6 says, "Don't now. And Matthew chapter 6 says, "Don't let your right hand know what your left let your right hand know what your left let your right hand know what your left hand's doing." But the back end of the hand's doing." But the back end of the hand's doing." But the back end of the verse says, "Lest you be seen by verse says, "Lest you be seen by verse says, "Lest you be seen by others." others." others." &gt;&gt; So the heart posture is, man, if your &gt;&gt; So the heart posture is, man, if your &gt;&gt; So the heart posture is, man, if your whole goal is to be seen by other whole goal is to be seen by other whole goal is to be seen by other people, you already got your reward. M people, you already got your reward. M people, you already got your reward. M &gt;&gt; that's that's what the verse is &gt;&gt; that's that's what the verse is &gt;&gt; that's that's what the verse is contradicting and or going against. And contradicting and or going against. And contradicting and or going against. And so it's just like man, what's the heart so it's just like man, what's the heart so it's just like man, what's the heart posture? I think that there is this posture? I think that there is this posture? I think that there is this &gt;&gt; there's this like, you know, undeniable, &gt;&gt; there's this like, you know, undeniable, &gt;&gt; there's this like, you know, undeniable, you know, everybody's picking up the you know, everybody's picking up the you know, everybody's picking up the phone, everyone's trying to, you know, phone, everyone's trying to, you know, phone, everyone's trying to, you know, &gt;&gt; be a Christian influencer, everyone's &gt;&gt; be a Christian influencer, everyone's &gt;&gt; be a Christian influencer, everyone's trying to do that. And there's like a trying to do that. And there's like a trying to do that. And there's like a part of me that's like, you know, praise part of me that's like, you know, praise part of me that's like, you know, praise God that Jesus is being preached. And God that Jesus is being preached. And God that Jesus is being preached. And then there's other part of it that's then there's other part of it that's then there's other part of it that's like, man, like I even I'm cautious to like, man, like I even I'm cautious to like, man, like I even I'm cautious to post certain things. There's so many post certain things. There's so many post certain things. There's so many videos that we filmed that haven't even videos that we filmed that haven't even videos that we filmed that haven't even fil hit the internet. There's so many fil hit the internet. There's so many fil hit the internet. There's so many people that we've interacted where I've people that we've interacted where I've people that we've interacted where I've turned around and been like cut the turned around and been like cut the turned around and been like cut the camera off you know there's so many of camera off you know there's so many of camera off you know there's so many of that that does exist and so you know I that that does exist and so you know I that that does exist and so you know I think it's just again like hoping the think it's just again like hoping the think it's just again like hoping the best in people just believe in the best best in people just believe in the best best in people just believe in the best in people you know in people you know in people you know &gt;&gt; so so there is a thought process I mean &gt;&gt; so so there is a thought process I mean &gt;&gt; so so there is a thought process I mean similarly it's like similarly it's like similarly it's like &gt;&gt; I don't have to advertise my music I &gt;&gt; I don't have to advertise my music I &gt;&gt; I don't have to advertise my music I could just make the songs and if you could just make the songs and if you could just make the songs and if you hear them you hear them if your heart hear them you hear them if your heart hear them you hear them if your heart changes your heart changes if you heard changes your heart changes if you heard changes your heart changes if you heard it it it &gt;&gt; right &gt;&gt; right &gt;&gt; right &gt;&gt; but there's a thought process in me that &gt;&gt; but there's a thought process in me that &gt;&gt; but there's a thought process in me that like man God called me to steward And I like man God called me to steward And I like man God called me to steward And I know that people are looking. So I'm I'm know that people are looking. So I'm I'm know that people are looking. So I'm I'm curious. Do you feel that sense of curious. Do you feel that sense of curious. Do you feel that sense of stewardship like, oh man, people are stewardship like, oh man, people are stewardship like, oh man, people are watching all watching all watching all &gt;&gt; the all Gen Z does is have their phones, &gt;&gt; the all Gen Z does is have their phones, &gt;&gt; the all Gen Z does is have their phones, right? So are you are you thinking about right? So are you are you thinking about right? So are you are you thinking about that in your mind like people there's that in your mind like people there's that in your mind like people there's somebody who needs to see this or somebody who needs to see this or somebody who needs to see this or there's somebody who needs to hear this there's somebody who needs to hear this there's somebody who needs to hear this or you know how does that work for you? or you know how does that work for you? or you know how does that work for you? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean as a man that's like trying &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean as a man that's like trying &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean as a man that's like trying to live in right standing with God. to live in right standing with God. to live in right standing with God. Yeah. I love having like another sense Yeah. I love having like another sense Yeah. I love having like another sense of in integrity and accountability of of in integrity and accountability of of in integrity and accountability of like like man people listen to me so like like man people listen to me so like like man people listen to me so it's like okay I I'm I'm going to make it's like okay I I'm I'm going to make it's like okay I I'm I'm going to make sure like my heart's good and taking sure like my heart's good and taking sure like my heart's good and taking care of my heart care of my heart care of my heart &gt;&gt; and then but yeah I think you can't like &gt;&gt; and then but yeah I think you can't like &gt;&gt; and then but yeah I think you can't like yes being a Christian there's that yes being a Christian there's that yes being a Christian there's that spiritual aspect of like we believe in spiritual aspect of like we believe in spiritual aspect of like we believe in God he's a supernatural being I got to God he's a supernatural being I got to God he's a supernatural being I got to pray to God and trust in him pray to God and trust in him pray to God and trust in him &gt;&gt; but also like Proverbs talking about &gt;&gt; but also like Proverbs talking about &gt;&gt; but also like Proverbs talking about just being a man of discipline and being just being a man of discipline and being just being a man of discipline and being practical like practical like practical like &gt;&gt; we got to take practical action steps &gt;&gt; we got to take practical action steps &gt;&gt; we got to take practical action steps like if someone says that They they want like if someone says that They they want like if someone says that They they want to stop watching porn. to stop watching porn. to stop watching porn. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And they're going, "Okay, God, take &gt;&gt; And they're going, "Okay, God, take &gt;&gt; And they're going, "Okay, God, take away, you know, take away porn from me." away, you know, take away porn from me." away, you know, take away porn from me." I mean, there's atheists that have quit I mean, there's atheists that have quit I mean, there's atheists that have quit watching porn that don't need Jesus to watching porn that don't need Jesus to watching porn that don't need Jesus to quit watching porn, right? So, I'm quit watching porn, right? So, I'm quit watching porn, right? So, I'm saying like, "Yes, lean on Jesus." And saying like, "Yes, lean on Jesus." And saying like, "Yes, lean on Jesus." And there's just practical action steps there's just practical action steps there's just practical action steps like, "Man, if you can't get off your like, "Man, if you can't get off your like, "Man, if you can't get off your phone past midnight, like, get off your phone past midnight, like, get off your phone past midnight, like, get off your phone midnight." You know what I mean? phone midnight." You know what I mean? phone midnight." You know what I mean? So, yeah, So, yeah, So, yeah, &gt;&gt; I think it's same. &gt;&gt; I think it's same. &gt;&gt; I think it's same. &gt;&gt; That's good, man. I &gt;&gt; That's good, man. I &gt;&gt; That's good, man. I I do Bible study with a lot of, you I do Bible study with a lot of, you I do Bible study with a lot of, you know, teenagers from time to time, you know, teenagers from time to time, you know, teenagers from time to time, you know, like my son and a group of his know, like my son and a group of his know, like my son and a group of his friends or just my kids in in in friends or just my kids in in in friends or just my kids in in in general. And um and one thing I've general. And um and one thing I've general. And um and one thing I've noticed is that, you know, a lot of them noticed is that, you know, a lot of them noticed is that, you know, a lot of them are very spiritually curious, right? are very spiritually curious, right? are very spiritually curious, right? Like my generation, it was kind of like, Like my generation, it was kind of like, Like my generation, it was kind of like, don't talk to me about that stuff, man. don't talk to me about that stuff, man. don't talk to me about that stuff, man. Oh, it's like politics. Like we don't Oh, it's like politics. Like we don't Oh, it's like politics. Like we don't talk about spiritual things, you know talk about spiritual things, you know talk about spiritual things, you know what I mean? I mean, they shut you down what I mean? I mean, they shut you down what I mean? I mean, they shut you down real quick. Feel like Gen Z is more real quick. Feel like Gen Z is more real quick. Feel like Gen Z is more like, "Yeah, I'll go to Bible. Yeah, like, "Yeah, I'll go to Bible. Yeah, like, "Yeah, I'll go to Bible. Yeah, what's whatever. I'll go to whatever. what's whatever. I'll go to whatever. what's whatever. I'll go to whatever. I'll do whatever." They're very I'll do whatever." They're very I'll do whatever." They're very spiritually curious. spiritually curious. spiritually curious. &gt;&gt; Um, but &gt;&gt; Um, but &gt;&gt; Um, but &gt;&gt; studies show they're also the most &gt;&gt; studies show they're also the most &gt;&gt; studies show they're also the most biblically illiterate. biblically illiterate. biblically illiterate. &gt;&gt; So, they're they're they'd rather not &gt;&gt; So, they're they're they'd rather not &gt;&gt; So, they're they're they'd rather not read the Bible for themselves. They'd read the Bible for themselves. They'd read the Bible for themselves. They'd rather just hear it something or just rather just hear it something or just rather just hear it something or just like, I don't know, it's this or maybe like, I don't know, it's this or maybe like, I don't know, it's this or maybe it's that. Or you see the little things it's that. Or you see the little things it's that. Or you see the little things online where people are like, online where people are like, online where people are like, &gt;&gt; three verses in the Bible. And they're &gt;&gt; three verses in the Bible. And they're &gt;&gt; three verses in the Bible. And they're like, ah, I don't know. you know, like, ah, I don't know. you know, like, ah, I don't know. you know, &gt;&gt; so I've heard you just even now sitting &gt;&gt; so I've heard you just even now sitting &gt;&gt; so I've heard you just even now sitting here, you've spit off Bible verses, here, you've spit off Bible verses, here, you've spit off Bible verses, you've spit stuff out like you've spit stuff out like you've spit stuff out like &gt;&gt; is there what would you say has been &gt;&gt; is there what would you say has been &gt;&gt; is there what would you say has been helpful for you as a a member of Gen Z helpful for you as a a member of Gen Z helpful for you as a a member of Gen Z to be more bi biblically literate? to be more bi biblically literate? to be more bi biblically literate? I think reading my Bible for myself, I think reading my Bible for myself, I think reading my Bible for myself, man. Like I think, you know, I think uh man. Like I think, you know, I think uh man. Like I think, you know, I think uh I I literally saw a video the other day I I literally saw a video the other day I I literally saw a video the other day where this guy was going up to people at where this guy was going up to people at where this guy was going up to people at his school that had Bible verses in his school that had Bible verses in his school that had Bible verses in their bio and he was asking them what their bio and he was asking them what their bio and he was asking them what does this Bible verse mean and they does this Bible verse mean and they does this Bible verse mean and they couldn't even quote the one they didn't couldn't even quote the one they didn't couldn't even quote the one they didn't even know it was in their Bible in their even know it was in their Bible in their even know it was in their Bible in their bio on Instagram. bio on Instagram. bio on Instagram. &gt;&gt; So I think you know reading the Bible &gt;&gt; So I think you know reading the Bible &gt;&gt; So I think you know reading the Bible that helps me a lot you know I think that helps me a lot you know I think that helps me a lot you know I think just you know just you know just you know &gt;&gt; how do you become more literate? You &gt;&gt; how do you become more literate? You &gt;&gt; how do you become more literate? You might want to read it might want to read it might want to read it &gt;&gt; read it a little bit. Uh you know I also &gt;&gt; read it a little bit. Uh you know I also &gt;&gt; read it a little bit. Uh you know I also I'm in Bible college right now. I I do I'm in Bible college right now. I I do I'm in Bible college right now. I I do online college and I use like different, online college and I use like different, online college and I use like different, you know, like like softwares and tools you know, like like softwares and tools you know, like like softwares and tools and things like that. Like I would not and things like that. Like I would not and things like that. Like I would not recommend recommend recommend &gt;&gt; any young person out there to only get &gt;&gt; any young person out there to only get &gt;&gt; any young person out there to only get their spiritual information from me. their spiritual information from me. their spiritual information from me. Like the last thing I want someone to do Like the last thing I want someone to do Like the last thing I want someone to do is only lean on Bryce Crawford's videos. is only lean on Bryce Crawford's videos. is only lean on Bryce Crawford's videos. &gt;&gt; Absolutely not. The whole reason we make &gt;&gt; Absolutely not. The whole reason we make &gt;&gt; Absolutely not. The whole reason we make the videos is, hey, go read your Bible the videos is, hey, go read your Bible the videos is, hey, go read your Bible for yourself. Like praise God that God's for yourself. Like praise God that God's for yourself. Like praise God that God's using us to help you, you know, using us to help you, you know, using us to help you, you know, understand certain things. Sure. But understand certain things. Sure. But understand certain things. Sure. But like, go read your Bible for yourself. like, go read your Bible for yourself. like, go read your Bible for yourself. Like that's my hope and joy and dream is Like that's my hope and joy and dream is Like that's my hope and joy and dream is just like we got so many Bible thumpers just like we got so many Bible thumpers just like we got so many Bible thumpers out there, you know? It's there's some out there, you know? It's there's some out there, you know? It's there's some good wisdom to be brought. But yeah, I good wisdom to be brought. But yeah, I good wisdom to be brought. But yeah, I mean I go to Bible college. mean I go to Bible college. mean I go to Bible college. &gt;&gt; I love that too, man. It's like you &gt;&gt; I love that too, man. It's like you &gt;&gt; I love that too, man. It's like you taking the word of God seriously is it's taking the word of God seriously is it's taking the word of God seriously is it's &gt;&gt; it it definitely is a lost art. You know &gt;&gt; it it definitely is a lost art. You know &gt;&gt; it it definitely is a lost art. You know what I mean? Like that's the the era I what I mean? Like that's the the era I what I mean? Like that's the the era I we, you know, in my we, you know, in my we, you know, in my late teens, early 20s, like late teens, early 20s, like late teens, early 20s, like &gt;&gt; we we would be grilling each other on &gt;&gt; we we would be grilling each other on &gt;&gt; we we would be grilling each other on like what is that one? do you know this like what is that one? do you know this like what is that one? do you know this or it was like fun for us but now I'm or it was like fun for us but now I'm or it was like fun for us but now I'm like it's just like a vibe like yeah like it's just like a vibe like yeah like it's just like a vibe like yeah Christianity is a vibe bro like yeah you Christianity is a vibe bro like yeah you Christianity is a vibe bro like yeah you know and we're we're not seeing what know and we're we're not seeing what know and we're we're not seeing what you're doing. you're doing. you're doing. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I think I think we need &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I think I think we need &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I think I think we need that that that's the pro that's the pro that that that's the pro that's the pro that that that's the pro that's the pro and con right to Christianity becoming and con right to Christianity becoming and con right to Christianity becoming popular. The pro is so many people are popular. The pro is so many people are popular. The pro is so many people are genuinely turning to Jesus. The con is genuinely turning to Jesus. The con is genuinely turning to Jesus. The con is because Christianity is becoming popular because Christianity is becoming popular because Christianity is becoming popular now Christianity's become a label and now Christianity's become a label and now Christianity's become a label and not a lifestyle. And so now we have to not a lifestyle. And so now we have to not a lifestyle. And so now we have to figure out okay is it is following Jesus figure out okay is it is following Jesus figure out okay is it is following Jesus just saying I am going to the Bible just saying I am going to the Bible just saying I am going to the Bible study or is following Jesus denying study or is following Jesus denying study or is following Jesus denying myself picking up my cross and following myself picking up my cross and following myself picking up my cross and following him and going allin and and that that's him and going allin and and that that's him and going allin and and that that's what that's what we need to glean from what that's what we need to glean from what that's what we need to glean from all the all the beautiful stuff going on all the all the beautiful stuff going on all the all the beautiful stuff going on social media all the beautiful social media all the beautiful social media all the beautiful Christians being raised up the Christian Christians being raised up the Christian Christians being raised up the Christian media the the rap music the gospel every media the the rap music the gospel every media the the rap music the gospel every everything just we listen to it and we everything just we listen to it and we everything just we listen to it and we go that encourages me in my faith you go that encourages me in my faith you go that encourages me in my faith you know that encourages me to walk it out. know that encourages me to walk it out. know that encourages me to walk it out. I think that's what we need. I think that's what we need. I think that's what we need. &gt;&gt; That's super dope. You're also I mean I &gt;&gt; That's super dope. You're also I mean I &gt;&gt; That's super dope. You're also I mean I don't know if this is what you would don't know if this is what you would don't know if this is what you would call yourself, but you're you're a call yourself, but you're you're a call yourself, but you're you're a Christian influencer, right? So Christian influencer, right? So Christian influencer, right? So influencers influencers influencers I mean their life is online. They're I mean their life is online. They're I mean their life is online. They're they're seen. they're seen. they're seen. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; You know, there's certain aspects of &gt;&gt; You know, there's certain aspects of &gt;&gt; You know, there's certain aspects of your life that you've shown. What where your life that you've shown. What where your life that you've shown. What where do you draw the line between like, all do you draw the line between like, all do you draw the line between like, all right, this is not for the world to see, right, this is not for the world to see, right, this is not for the world to see, but this is like how do you navigate but this is like how do you navigate but this is like how do you navigate that? that? that? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I love having a private life. I &gt;&gt; Yeah, I love having a private life. I &gt;&gt; Yeah, I love having a private life. I love living a quiet life. And I think love living a quiet life. And I think love living a quiet life. And I think that's such an important thing. You that's such an important thing. You that's such an important thing. You know, I have many hobbies and and things know, I have many hobbies and and things know, I have many hobbies and and things that I enjoy that bring me rest that that I enjoy that bring me rest that that I enjoy that bring me rest that people don't know about and I don't want people don't know about and I don't want people don't know about and I don't want them to know about because I want it to them to know about because I want it to them to know about because I want it to be Bryce's thing. be Bryce's thing. be Bryce's thing. &gt;&gt; But, you know, I love &gt;&gt; But, you know, I love &gt;&gt; But, you know, I love &gt;&gt; what Bryce &gt;&gt; what Bryce &gt;&gt; what Bryce &gt;&gt; I just starts dumping it all on here. &gt;&gt; I just starts dumping it all on here. &gt;&gt; I just starts dumping it all on here. &gt;&gt; One thing that I do love to do that &gt;&gt; One thing that I do love to do that &gt;&gt; One thing that I do love to do that people that I'm I'm very open about, I people that I'm I'm very open about, I people that I'm I'm very open about, I love to play basketball, man. I love to love to play basketball, man. I love to love to play basketball, man. I love to get out and hoop. I love I love to fish. get out and hoop. I love I love to fish. get out and hoop. I love I love to fish. I love to go to the beach. Like, all I love to go to the beach. Like, all I love to go to the beach. Like, all those things are great. I I think the those things are great. I I think the those things are great. I I think the matter of living a quiet life is finding matter of living a quiet life is finding matter of living a quiet life is finding these rhythms of rest these rhythms of rest these rhythms of rest &gt;&gt; where it's just like, man, is Bryce &gt;&gt; where it's just like, man, is Bryce &gt;&gt; where it's just like, man, is Bryce getting good sleep? Is Bryce getting getting good sleep? Is Bryce getting getting good sleep? Is Bryce getting this? Like, if you if you just look this? Like, if you if you just look this? Like, if you if you just look through history, like the people that through history, like the people that through history, like the people that live the longest are people that live the longest are people that live the longest are people that practice Sabbath. practice Sabbath. practice Sabbath. &gt;&gt; Amen. &gt;&gt; Amen. &gt;&gt; Amen. &gt;&gt; Jews live the longest because they &gt;&gt; Jews live the longest because they &gt;&gt; Jews live the longest because they practice Sabbath. Uh Seventh Day practice Sabbath. Uh Seventh Day practice Sabbath. Uh Seventh Day Adventist practice Sabbath. They live Adventist practice Sabbath. They live Adventist practice Sabbath. They live the longest statistically in history. the longest statistically in history. the longest statistically in history. So, it makes me go like, man, so many So, it makes me go like, man, so many So, it makes me go like, man, so many people are in a rush nowadays. Maybe people are in a rush nowadays. Maybe people are in a rush nowadays. Maybe Bryce just needs to slow down and find Bryce just needs to slow down and find Bryce just needs to slow down and find those things that like and two like I those things that like and two like I those things that like and two like I just don't want to like my my my goal just don't want to like my my my goal just don't want to like my my my goal has never been to be like the center of has never been to be like the center of has never been to be like the center of attention. Like Bryce likes to have attention. Like Bryce likes to have attention. Like Bryce likes to have things that are just for Bryce and just things that are just for Bryce and just things that are just for Bryce and just for his friends. And so for his friends. And so for his friends. And so &gt;&gt; I just kind of draw the line, okay, &gt;&gt; I just kind of draw the line, okay, &gt;&gt; I just kind of draw the line, okay, what's ministry is ministry. If the Lord what's ministry is ministry. If the Lord what's ministry is ministry. If the Lord leads me to post this or encourage leads me to post this or encourage leads me to post this or encourage someone in this way, I will. If he someone in this way, I will. If he someone in this way, I will. If he doesn't, man, I'm just going to keep it doesn't, man, I'm just going to keep it doesn't, man, I'm just going to keep it to myself. to myself. to myself. &gt;&gt; Yo, God, protect this man. Just protect &gt;&gt; Yo, God, protect this man. Just protect &gt;&gt; Yo, God, protect this man. Just protect this man. He's too wise for his age. this man. He's too wise for his age. this man. He's too wise for his age. Protect him. Protect him. Protect him. &gt;&gt; Please Jesus, please protect me. If you &gt;&gt; Please Jesus, please protect me. If you &gt;&gt; Please Jesus, please protect me. If you over 35 out there, like tap in. I'm over 35 out there, like tap in. I'm over 35 out there, like tap in. I'm telling you, my man is Yo, I'm excited telling you, my man is Yo, I'm excited telling you, my man is Yo, I'm excited to see what the Lord does with you, man. to see what the Lord does with you, man. to see what the Lord does with you, man. I'm pray I pray for just consistency and I'm pray I pray for just consistency and I'm pray I pray for just consistency and and um and um and um &gt;&gt; I want to I want to knock on the door of &gt;&gt; I want to I want to knock on the door of &gt;&gt; I want to I want to knock on the door of mental health a little bit because you mental health a little bit because you mental health a little bit because you talked about that. talked about that. talked about that. &gt;&gt; You know, I um I probably had my first &gt;&gt; You know, I um I probably had my first &gt;&gt; You know, I um I probably had my first mental breakdown at 22, you know what I mental breakdown at 22, you know what I mental breakdown at 22, you know what I mean? And I I went to a a mental mean? And I I went to a a mental mean? And I I went to a a mental hospital for a few days. It was just hospital for a few days. It was just hospital for a few days. It was just really really bad. And I was able to be really really bad. And I was able to be really really bad. And I was able to be sustained for a long period of time sustained for a long period of time sustained for a long period of time after that. after that. after that. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; But the only social media out when I was &gt;&gt; But the only social media out when I was &gt;&gt; But the only social media out when I was 22 is Facebook, bro. It wasn't 22 is Facebook, bro. It wasn't 22 is Facebook, bro. It wasn't &gt;&gt; Oh, snap. &gt;&gt; Oh, snap. &gt;&gt; Oh, snap. &gt;&gt; It wasn't a big deal. &gt;&gt; It wasn't a big deal. &gt;&gt; It wasn't a big deal. &gt;&gt; I don't even know how to use Facebook. &gt;&gt; I don't even know how to use Facebook. &gt;&gt; I don't even know how to use Facebook. That's ancient. That's ancient. That's ancient. &gt;&gt; You see what I'm saying? &gt;&gt; You see what I'm saying? &gt;&gt; You see what I'm saying? &gt;&gt; That is ancient. &gt;&gt; That is ancient. &gt;&gt; That is ancient. So, what I say that to say this, like So, what I say that to say this, like So, what I say that to say this, like now social media is literally like I now social media is literally like I now social media is literally like I think um statistically it it contributes think um statistically it it contributes think um statistically it it contributes to 39% of people's mental health to 39% of people's mental health to 39% of people's mental health deterioration. deterioration. deterioration. And um I'm just curious for you like And um I'm just curious for you like And um I'm just curious for you like you know dealing with you know dealing with you know dealing with uh depression, having to deal with uh depression, having to deal with uh depression, having to deal with anxiety, knowing that that that's anxiety, knowing that that that's anxiety, knowing that that that's something the enemy could use to like uh something the enemy could use to like uh something the enemy could use to like uh uh I mean something God could use also uh I mean something God could use also uh I mean something God could use also to to make you dependent. Um, but yeah, to to make you dependent. Um, but yeah, to to make you dependent. Um, but yeah, I'm just curious like there's a I guess I'm just curious like there's a I guess I'm just curious like there's a I guess like a u a problem right now with like a u a problem right now with like a u a problem right now with therapy, identifying therapy as a therapy, identifying therapy as a therapy, identifying therapy as a necessity, especially with like Gen Z necessity, especially with like Gen Z necessity, especially with like Gen Z and just like and just like and just like &gt;&gt; walking through the idea of getting &gt;&gt; walking through the idea of getting &gt;&gt; walking through the idea of getting help. It's more just like I just want to help. It's more just like I just want to help. It's more just like I just want to talk about I want to say I have issues, talk about I want to say I have issues, talk about I want to say I have issues, but I don't want to actually deal with but I don't want to actually deal with but I don't want to actually deal with it. it. it. &gt;&gt; What do you say to folks in that realm &gt;&gt; What do you say to folks in that realm &gt;&gt; What do you say to folks in that realm and you know who are in that bucket? and you know who are in that bucket? and you know who are in that bucket? Man, God supernaturally took away my Man, God supernaturally took away my Man, God supernaturally took away my crippling anxiety and depression when I crippling anxiety and depression when I crippling anxiety and depression when I was 17. I told you I shared with you a was 17. I told you I shared with you a was 17. I told you I shared with you a moment ago I had my first anxiety attack moment ago I had my first anxiety attack moment ago I had my first anxiety attack in four years about two weeks ago. in four years about two weeks ago. in four years about two weeks ago. &gt;&gt; But like I think it would be foolish for &gt;&gt; But like I think it would be foolish for &gt;&gt; But like I think it would be foolish for me to say that God doesn't give wisdom me to say that God doesn't give wisdom me to say that God doesn't give wisdom to doctors to prescribe the right amount to doctors to prescribe the right amount to doctors to prescribe the right amount of medication to help someone with their of medication to help someone with their of medication to help someone with their anxiety and depression anxiety and depression anxiety and depression &gt;&gt; and trusting God. M &gt;&gt; and trusting God. M &gt;&gt; and trusting God. M &gt;&gt; so like sometimes trusting in God is &gt;&gt; so like sometimes trusting in God is &gt;&gt; so like sometimes trusting in God is allowing God to use the wisdom that he's allowing God to use the wisdom that he's allowing God to use the wisdom that he's given to doctors, given to therapists to given to doctors, given to therapists to given to doctors, given to therapists to you know be there for there's a bunch of you know be there for there's a bunch of you know be there for there's a bunch of you know self-help book and mumbo jumbo you know self-help book and mumbo jumbo you know self-help book and mumbo jumbo out there that doesn't align with out there that doesn't align with out there that doesn't align with scripture right but I mean I I went to scripture right but I mean I I went to scripture right but I mean I I went to therapy when I was when I was 18 when I therapy when I was when I was 18 when I therapy when I was when I was 18 when I was 19 when I was 20 like I went through was 19 when I was 20 like I went through was 19 when I was 20 like I went through therapy and like I I praise God for that therapy and like I I praise God for that therapy and like I I praise God for that I praise God that he gave Juliet wisdom I praise God that he gave Juliet wisdom I praise God that he gave Juliet wisdom to help me and guide me and and be there to help me and guide me and and be there to help me and guide me and and be there for me and and help me learn things for me and and help me learn things for me and and help me learn things about myself and I praise God that he about myself and I praise God that he about myself and I praise God that he can I can be dependent on him. So, you can I can be dependent on him. So, you can I can be dependent on him. So, you know, I think I think it's just a matter know, I think I think it's just a matter know, I think I think it's just a matter of of of of of like perspective, right? Like, can of of like perspective, right? Like, can of of like perspective, right? Like, can God to take it away? Absolutely. God to take it away? Absolutely. God to take it away? Absolutely. &gt;&gt; But does he not? Sure. Why? I don't &gt;&gt; But does he not? Sure. Why? I don't &gt;&gt; But does he not? Sure. Why? I don't know. Can God heal everyone? Yes. Does know. Can God heal everyone? Yes. Does know. Can God heal everyone? Yes. Does he know why? I don't know. he know why? I don't know. he know why? I don't know. &gt;&gt; I don't This is It's re It's so &gt;&gt; I don't This is It's re It's so &gt;&gt; I don't This is It's re It's so refreshing talking to you, bro. Like, refreshing talking to you, bro. Like, refreshing talking to you, bro. Like, I'm sorry. I'm sounding like a dad now. I'm sorry. I'm sounding like a dad now. I'm sorry. I'm sounding like a dad now. You I'm in dad mode. like, "Yo, yo, this You I'm in dad mode. like, "Yo, yo, this You I'm in dad mode. like, "Yo, yo, this is so dope." Um, is so dope." Um, is so dope." Um, &gt;&gt; all right. When I was in school, when I &gt;&gt; all right. When I was in school, when I &gt;&gt; all right. When I was in school, when I was in college, was in college, was in college, &gt;&gt; um, I was part of campus ministry, &gt;&gt; um, I was part of campus ministry, &gt;&gt; um, I was part of campus ministry, right? right? right? &gt;&gt; And, um, &gt;&gt; And, um, &gt;&gt; And, um, and you know, there were there were a and you know, there were there were a and you know, there were there were a lot of women in our campus ministry, lot of women in our campus ministry, lot of women in our campus ministry, &gt;&gt; a lot of young ladies, &gt;&gt; a lot of young ladies, &gt;&gt; a lot of young ladies, &gt;&gt; not as many guys. &gt;&gt; not as many guys. &gt;&gt; not as many guys. We were a commodity. We were a commodity. We were a commodity. &gt;&gt; Rare rare. That's right. Come on. &gt;&gt; Rare rare. That's right. Come on. &gt;&gt; Rare rare. That's right. Come on. &gt;&gt; Um, things seem to be around the same &gt;&gt; Um, things seem to be around the same &gt;&gt; Um, things seem to be around the same now, you know, where it's like now, you know, where it's like now, you know, where it's like &gt;&gt; every time I'm out and about, I hear &gt;&gt; every time I'm out and about, I hear &gt;&gt; every time I'm out and about, I hear Christian women saying, "Do you have a Christian women saying, "Do you have a Christian women saying, "Do you have a single friend? Do you know any guy single friend? Do you know any guy single friend? Do you know any guy friends or young guys, single guys?" And friends or young guys, single guys?" And friends or young guys, single guys?" And and they're gone. It's just like, "Ah." and they're gone. It's just like, "Ah." and they're gone. It's just like, "Ah." Um, Um, Um, but to the single guys out there, right? but to the single guys out there, right? but to the single guys out there, right? Like the single guys out there who feel Like the single guys out there who feel Like the single guys out there who feel entitled and they're like, "I got the entitled and they're like, "I got the entitled and they're like, "I got the whole pond to choose from." because whole pond to choose from." because whole pond to choose from." because you've been there. I know you're in a you've been there. I know you're in a you've been there. I know you're in a relationship now if I'm not mistaken. relationship now if I'm not mistaken. relationship now if I'm not mistaken. Okay. Okay. Okay. &gt;&gt; If if any young ladies was wondering in &gt;&gt; If if any young ladies was wondering in &gt;&gt; If if any young ladies was wondering in a relationship, but a relationship, but a relationship, but there's a you I'm sure you got some some there's a you I'm sure you got some some there's a you I'm sure you got some some single guy Christian friends. I'm sure single guy Christian friends. I'm sure single guy Christian friends. I'm sure you've been you've been a single you've been you've been a single you've been you've been a single Christian guy. There's an entitlement. Christian guy. There's an entitlement. Christian guy. There's an entitlement. There's I had to tell one of my friends, There's I had to tell one of my friends, There's I had to tell one of my friends, you know, you can't lead these girls on you know, you can't lead these girls on you know, you can't lead these girls on like you know like this is not just your like you know like this is not just your like you know like this is not just your pond to just oh, who do I want? I pick pond to just oh, who do I want? I pick pond to just oh, who do I want? I pick this one, pick that one. What what do this one, pick that one. What what do this one, pick that one. What what do you tell some of these both the guys and you tell some of these both the guys and you tell some of these both the guys and the girls in in Gen Z about the girls in in Gen Z about the girls in in Gen Z about relationships and navigating that that relationships and navigating that that relationships and navigating that that unique space? unique space? unique space? &gt;&gt; To all my young men out there that think &gt;&gt; To all my young men out there that think &gt;&gt; To all my young men out there that think you can choose from, you better sit you can choose from, you better sit you can choose from, you better sit down. You better sit down right now. down. You better sit down right now. down. You better sit down right now. They better stop. They better stop. They better stop. &gt;&gt; Okay, &gt;&gt; Okay, &gt;&gt; Okay, &gt;&gt; bro. I My prayer when I started dating &gt;&gt; bro. I My prayer when I started dating &gt;&gt; bro. I My prayer when I started dating my girlfriend was, "God, can I take your my girlfriend was, "God, can I take your my girlfriend was, "God, can I take your daughter out on a date?" daughter out on a date?" daughter out on a date?" &gt;&gt; I felt like I had to ask God permission &gt;&gt; I felt like I had to ask God permission &gt;&gt; I felt like I had to ask God permission to take my girlfriend out on a date to take my girlfriend out on a date to take my girlfriend out on a date &gt;&gt; because everyone like &gt;&gt; because everyone like &gt;&gt; because everyone like &gt;&gt; takes women Guys tend to do this a lot. &gt;&gt; takes women Guys tend to do this a lot. &gt;&gt; takes women Guys tend to do this a lot. Take girls hearts and they just start Take girls hearts and they just start Take girls hearts and they just start like poking it. You know what I'm like poking it. You know what I'm like poking it. You know what I'm saying? And jabbing it. And it tends to saying? And jabbing it. And it tends to saying? And jabbing it. And it tends to be selfish. So like for my men out be selfish. So like for my men out be selfish. So like for my men out there, be men like like lead well. Cling there, be men like like lead well. Cling there, be men like like lead well. Cling to the word. to the word. to the word. &gt;&gt; Cuz women tend to follow. They follow &gt;&gt; Cuz women tend to follow. They follow &gt;&gt; Cuz women tend to follow. They follow the lead, right? Like lead well. the lead, right? Like lead well. the lead, right? Like lead well. &gt;&gt; For my women out there, &gt;&gt; For my women out there, &gt;&gt; For my women out there, &gt;&gt; don't settle for less. &gt;&gt; don't settle for less. &gt;&gt; don't settle for less. &gt;&gt; There are godly men out there that do &gt;&gt; There are godly men out there that do &gt;&gt; There are godly men out there that do exist. They do exist. Um you can know exist. They do exist. Um you can know exist. They do exist. Um you can know them by their fruits. Vice versa, same them by their fruits. Vice versa, same them by their fruits. Vice versa, same as men, you can know them by their as men, you can know them by their as men, you can know them by their fruits. But at the end of the day, like fruits. But at the end of the day, like fruits. But at the end of the day, like I've read so I don't like to give a lot I've read so I don't like to give a lot I've read so I don't like to give a lot of dating advice because I'm not of dating advice because I'm not of dating advice because I'm not married. So the books I've read that married. So the books I've read that married. So the books I've read that have helped me are Ben Stewart, single, have helped me are Ben Stewart, single, have helped me are Ben Stewart, single, dating, engaged, married. Anything any dating, engaged, married. Anything any dating, engaged, married. Anything any Ben Stewart's got great stuff on dating Ben Stewart's got great stuff on dating Ben Stewart's got great stuff on dating and uh Pastor Jonathan Pluda's got great and uh Pastor Jonathan Pluda's got great and uh Pastor Jonathan Pluda's got great stuff on dating. Okay. But man, leaning stuff on dating. Okay. But man, leaning stuff on dating. Okay. But man, leaning on men's on men's on men's &gt;&gt; my guy right there. I love him, &gt;&gt; my guy right there. I love him, &gt;&gt; my guy right there. I love him, &gt;&gt; bro. He is phenomenal. &gt;&gt; bro. He is phenomenal. &gt;&gt; bro. He is phenomenal. &gt;&gt; That's like a friend of mine. Like I'm &gt;&gt; That's like a friend of mine. Like I'm &gt;&gt; That's like a friend of mine. Like I'm going to text him after this. going to text him after this. going to text him after this. &gt;&gt; Like I love him. He's great. So like, &gt;&gt; Like I love him. He's great. So like, &gt;&gt; Like I love him. He's great. So like, you know, those guys gleaning from them. you know, those guys gleaning from them. you know, those guys gleaning from them. And I I think too just learning from And I I think too just learning from And I I think too just learning from married people. married people. married people. &gt;&gt; Like if you don't even know what to do &gt;&gt; Like if you don't even know what to do &gt;&gt; Like if you don't even know what to do with your dating life or your boys, you with your dating life or your boys, you with your dating life or your boys, you know, if you got a guy that you like or know, if you got a guy that you like or know, if you got a guy that you like or a girl you like, like a girl you like, like a girl you like, like &gt;&gt; ask a married couple that you love and &gt;&gt; ask a married couple that you love and &gt;&gt; ask a married couple that you love and trust, like get get some wisdom. Mentors trust, like get get some wisdom. Mentors trust, like get get some wisdom. Mentors in my life have been like the greatest in my life have been like the greatest in my life have been like the greatest gift. gift. gift. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I can tell you you you're a deep &gt;&gt; Yeah, I can tell you you you're a deep &gt;&gt; Yeah, I can tell you you you're a deep well and you've got people who are well and you've got people who are well and you've got people who are pouring into that well as well. Like you pouring into that well as well. Like you pouring into that well as well. Like you &gt;&gt; you know, I mean, I hate to say it &gt;&gt; you know, I mean, I hate to say it &gt;&gt; you know, I mean, I hate to say it again, but it's like it reminds me of my again, but it's like it reminds me of my again, but it's like it reminds me of my tribe when we were, you know, your age. tribe when we were, you know, your age. tribe when we were, you know, your age. like we were just like we were just like we were just &gt;&gt; we wanted to hear from older, wiser &gt;&gt; we wanted to hear from older, wiser &gt;&gt; we wanted to hear from older, wiser people. We didn't think like we already people. We didn't think like we already people. We didn't think like we already know this. We got this figured out. It know this. We got this figured out. It know this. We got this figured out. It was like and you're your posture is one was like and you're your posture is one was like and you're your posture is one of because you can't be in authority of because you can't be in authority of because you can't be in authority &gt;&gt; unless you've been under an authority. &gt;&gt; unless you've been under an authority. &gt;&gt; unless you've been under an authority. You know what I mean? Unless you submit You know what I mean? Unless you submit You know what I mean? Unless you submit to an authority, you can't be in to an authority, you can't be in to an authority, you can't be in authority. Like I don't I can't say I'm authority. Like I don't I can't say I'm authority. Like I don't I can't say I'm the best at, the best at, the best at, &gt;&gt; you know, camera work if I've never sat &gt;&gt; you know, camera work if I've never sat &gt;&gt; you know, camera work if I've never sat under the best at camera work and learn under the best at camera work and learn under the best at camera work and learn that. So, I think that's that's super that. So, I think that's that's super that. So, I think that's that's super dope about how you, you know, you apply dope about how you, you know, you apply dope about how you, you know, you apply that. Um, that. Um, that. Um, so you're 21 or 22 21. so you're 21 or 22 21. so you're 21 or 22 21. Um, Um, Um, &gt;&gt; a lot of people look up to you. Um, &gt;&gt; a lot of people look up to you. Um, &gt;&gt; a lot of people look up to you. Um, you know, I was in my early 20s when I you know, I was in my early 20s when I you know, I was in my early 20s when I put out my first album as well, right? put out my first album as well, right? put out my first album as well, right? So, I I I know that feeling. However, you have way more digital influence than you have way more digital influence than you have way more digital influence than I do, than I did. Way more eyeballs I do, than I did. Way more eyeballs I do, than I did. Way more eyeballs looking at you. looking at you. looking at you. I was able to make a lot of mistakes as I was able to make a lot of mistakes as I was able to make a lot of mistakes as a 20some without the pressure of a 20some without the pressure of a 20some without the pressure of everybody seeing me. How are you everybody seeing me. How are you everybody seeing me. How are you navigating that? Like being a human navigating that? Like being a human navigating that? Like being a human because you're still a broken human because you're still a broken human because you're still a broken human being that God is has has healed, but being that God is has has healed, but being that God is has has healed, but that flesh is still the flesh. You're that flesh is still the flesh. You're that flesh is still the flesh. You're not perfect. How have you navigated your not perfect. How have you navigated your not perfect. How have you navigated your imperfections with the world watching? imperfections with the world watching? imperfections with the world watching? &gt;&gt; Try to be as honest as I can be because &gt;&gt; Try to be as honest as I can be because &gt;&gt; Try to be as honest as I can be because I don't I I'm not perfect and I don't I don't I I'm not perfect and I don't I don't I I'm not perfect and I don't want anyone to think I'm perfect. want anyone to think I'm perfect. want anyone to think I'm perfect. &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, mentors, pastors, leaders, leaning on mentors, pastors, leaders, leaning on mentors, pastors, leaders, leaning on them, leaning on good friendships and them, leaning on good friendships and them, leaning on good friendships and brothers. Man, the pressure is real brothers. Man, the pressure is real brothers. Man, the pressure is real &gt;&gt; because so many people have an opinion &gt;&gt; because so many people have an opinion &gt;&gt; because so many people have an opinion about Bryce. And there's a lot of people about Bryce. And there's a lot of people about Bryce. And there's a lot of people that have a view of my life. And I've that have a view of my life. And I've that have a view of my life. And I've let those views hurt me and harm me and let those views hurt me and harm me and let those views hurt me and harm me and affect me in negative ways. But then I affect me in negative ways. But then I affect me in negative ways. But then I had a mentor tell me, "Man, Bryce, very had a mentor tell me, "Man, Bryce, very had a mentor tell me, "Man, Bryce, very few people have a voice in your life." few people have a voice in your life." few people have a voice in your life." So many people have a view, but very few So many people have a view, but very few So many people have a view, but very few people have a voice in your life. You people have a voice in your life. You people have a voice in your life. You know, Jesus preached to the masses, but know, Jesus preached to the masses, but know, Jesus preached to the masses, but then he had the 72, then the 12, then then he had the 72, then the 12, then then he had the 72, then the 12, then Peter, James, and John, and then John. Peter, James, and John, and then John. Peter, James, and John, and then John. there were levels of trust and like there were levels of trust and like there were levels of trust and like levels of and so I think for me just levels of and so I think for me just levels of and so I think for me just being honest clinging to Jesus like being honest clinging to Jesus like being honest clinging to Jesus like allow you know confessing and I have a allow you know confessing and I have a allow you know confessing and I have a group chat with my with my roommates group chat with my with my roommates group chat with my with my roommates where like you know if we feel like where like you know if we feel like where like you know if we feel like making a dumb decision we text in there making a dumb decision we text in there making a dumb decision we text in there before we make a dumb decision we feel before we make a dumb decision we feel before we make a dumb decision we feel like making a dumb decision we come like making a dumb decision we come like making a dumb decision we come around each other you know I think I around each other you know I think I around each other you know I think I think the hardest part about it has got think the hardest part about it has got think the hardest part about it has got to be to be to be &gt;&gt; you know there are people how do I how &gt;&gt; you know there are people how do I how &gt;&gt; you know there are people how do I how do I phrase this I'm trying to phrase do I phrase this I'm trying to phrase do I phrase this I'm trying to phrase this in in a way that like there are this in in a way that like there are this in in a way that like there are people that are making the same mistakes people that are making the same mistakes people that are making the same mistakes I am making. I am making. I am making. &gt;&gt; But because there's eyeballs on me, it &gt;&gt; But because there's eyeballs on me, it &gt;&gt; But because there's eyeballs on me, it almost as if Bryce makes a mistake, it's almost as if Bryce makes a mistake, it's almost as if Bryce makes a mistake, it's amplified and 10 times worse than amplified and 10 times worse than amplified and 10 times worse than someone else that makes the same someone else that makes the same someone else that makes the same mistake. Now, I'm not letting that mistake. Now, I'm not letting that mistake. Now, I'm not letting that slide, right? I'm not just saying, oh, slide, right? I'm not just saying, oh, slide, right? I'm not just saying, oh, you know, we just act like Bryce didn't you know, we just act like Bryce didn't you know, we just act like Bryce didn't do anything if he does something. But do anything if he does something. But do anything if he does something. But it's just more of the fact of like, it's just more of the fact of like, it's just more of the fact of like, &gt;&gt; man, just making sure I have those &gt;&gt; man, just making sure I have those &gt;&gt; man, just making sure I have those people in my corner that that that people in my corner that that that people in my corner that that that aren't impressed by by me that can be aren't impressed by by me that can be aren't impressed by by me that can be real with me, you know? M m um let's real with me, you know? M m um let's real with me, you know? M m um let's talk a little bit about street talk a little bit about street talk a little bit about street evangelism. evangelism. evangelism. &gt;&gt; Let's do it. &gt;&gt; Let's do it. &gt;&gt; Let's do it. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um first of all, there's a lot of ways to first of all, there's a lot of ways to first of all, there's a lot of ways to do it wrong. do it wrong. do it wrong. &gt;&gt; There's a lot of ways to do it wrong. Um &gt;&gt; There's a lot of ways to do it wrong. Um &gt;&gt; There's a lot of ways to do it wrong. Um I have encountered street evangelists I have encountered street evangelists I have encountered street evangelists that I've had to rebuke, that I've had to rebuke, that I've had to rebuke, &gt;&gt; you know, and just like, "Hey, hey, hey, &gt;&gt; you know, and just like, "Hey, hey, hey, &gt;&gt; you know, and just like, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, you are you're demeaning and hey, hey, you are you're demeaning and hey, hey, you are you're demeaning and you're talking to this person like they you're talking to this person like they you're talking to this person like they are trash." Mhm. are trash." Mhm. are trash." Mhm. &gt;&gt; And I've, you know, encountered street &gt;&gt; And I've, you know, encountered street &gt;&gt; And I've, you know, encountered street evangelists that were pleasantly evangelists that were pleasantly evangelists that were pleasantly surprising to me because they were like surprising to me because they were like surprising to me because they were like calm and handling the onslaught of calm and handling the onslaught of calm and handling the onslaught of negativity well. Like what has been your negativity well. Like what has been your negativity well. Like what has been your experience of how to navigate that? Like experience of how to navigate that? Like experience of how to navigate that? Like not trying to argue with somebody or not not trying to argue with somebody or not not trying to argue with somebody or not trying to, you know, getting prideful trying to, you know, getting prideful trying to, you know, getting prideful because you're doing what people are because you're doing what people are because you're doing what people are afraid to do. Like how have you afraid to do. Like how have you afraid to do. Like how have you navigated that? navigated that? navigated that? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, a lot of people think that &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, a lot of people think that &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, a lot of people think that like persecution is getting someone like persecution is getting someone like persecution is getting someone riled up. riled up. riled up. &gt;&gt; That's not persecution. You're just &gt;&gt; That's not persecution. You're just &gt;&gt; That's not persecution. You're just starting an argument. I'm not trying to starting an argument. I'm not trying to starting an argument. I'm not trying to start an argument. I don't The last start an argument. I don't The last start an argument. I don't The last thing I want to do is egg someone on. thing I want to do is egg someone on. thing I want to do is egg someone on. &gt;&gt; That's the last thing I want to do. So, &gt;&gt; That's the last thing I want to do. So, &gt;&gt; That's the last thing I want to do. So, I you know, I think just allowing the I you know, I think just allowing the I you know, I think just allowing the love of Christ to lead me. You know, love of Christ to lead me. You know, love of Christ to lead me. You know, love doesn't compromise love doesn't compromise love doesn't compromise it. It pulls the gold out of people and it. It pulls the gold out of people and it. It pulls the gold out of people and calls them higher at the same time, calls them higher at the same time, calls them higher at the same time, right? you know, and so I'm just like right? you know, and so I'm just like right? you know, and so I'm just like allowing like, man, God, would you just allowing like, man, God, would you just allowing like, man, God, would you just shine the love your love through me, shine the love your love through me, shine the love your love through me, meet people where they're at, and and meet people where they're at, and and meet people where they're at, and and even just like being able to see people even just like being able to see people even just like being able to see people the way that God sees them. I think it's the way that God sees them. I think it's the way that God sees them. I think it's the biggest thing, you know, even you the biggest thing, you know, even you the biggest thing, you know, even you know, when because when you're out in know, when because when you're out in know, when because when you're out in the street or even even if you're just a the street or even even if you're just a the street or even even if you're just a Christian in general, it's easy to look Christian in general, it's easy to look Christian in general, it's easy to look at people that don't believe at people that don't believe at people that don't believe &gt;&gt; and you get this subtle pride that &gt;&gt; and you get this subtle pride that &gt;&gt; and you get this subtle pride that enters your heart think, "Man, they're enters your heart think, "Man, they're enters your heart think, "Man, they're too far gone." too far gone." too far gone." &gt;&gt; Or like, "Oh, I might be better than &gt;&gt; Or like, "Oh, I might be better than &gt;&gt; Or like, "Oh, I might be better than them or this, this, and that or they them or this, this, and that or they them or this, this, and that or they need to fix that." and you just become a need to fix that." and you just become a need to fix that." and you just become a micromanager of someone that's frankly micromanager of someone that's frankly micromanager of someone that's frankly being more honest than you because being more honest than you because being more honest than you because they're being honest in the fact that they're being honest in the fact that they're being honest in the fact that they don't believe in God. they don't believe in God. they don't believe in God. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And you know, we need more people that &gt;&gt; And you know, we need more people that &gt;&gt; And you know, we need more people that live this lifestyle of loving God and live this lifestyle of loving God and live this lifestyle of loving God and loving people and allowing the love of loving people and allowing the love of loving people and allowing the love of God to leave them and guiding navigating God to leave them and guiding navigating God to leave them and guiding navigating the conversations and things like that. the conversations and things like that. the conversations and things like that. Sharing the gospel. Also, listening Sharing the gospel. Also, listening Sharing the gospel. Also, listening &gt;&gt; has been the greatest piece of &gt;&gt; has been the greatest piece of &gt;&gt; has been the greatest piece of evangelism advice I was ever given. Like evangelism advice I was ever given. Like evangelism advice I was ever given. Like most people when they go through stuff, most people when they go through stuff, most people when they go through stuff, they don't remember people telling them they don't remember people telling them they don't remember people telling them how to fix it. they remember the people how to fix it. they remember the people how to fix it. they remember the people that were there for them. that were there for them. that were there for them. &gt;&gt; And so when I'm when we were talking on &gt;&gt; And so when I'm when we were talking on &gt;&gt; And so when I'm when we were talking on the stream, I'm just like, "Hey man, the stream, I'm just like, "Hey man, the stream, I'm just like, "Hey man, like how are you doing? Like you good, like how are you doing? Like you good, like how are you doing? Like you good, man? Like what's going on? Like tell me man? Like what's going on? Like tell me man? Like what's going on? Like tell me about yourself." about yourself." about yourself." &gt;&gt; And then you're like, "Hey, you care if &gt;&gt; And then you're like, "Hey, you care if &gt;&gt; And then you're like, "Hey, you care if I share a little bit of my story?" I share a little bit of my story?" I share a little bit of my story?" &gt;&gt; Sure. &gt;&gt; Sure. &gt;&gt; Sure. &gt;&gt; Okay. And then I I just go in. Just &gt;&gt; Okay. And then I I just go in. Just &gt;&gt; Okay. And then I I just go in. Just don't get I can't can't give up that don't get I can't can't give up that don't get I can't can't give up that moment, right? They they trust me now. moment, right? They they trust me now. moment, right? They they trust me now. So I don't I don't want to give up that So I don't I don't want to give up that So I don't I don't want to give up that moment. moment. moment. &gt;&gt; All right. So I was a young &gt;&gt; All right. So I was a young &gt;&gt; All right. So I was a young married father of two before I had life married father of two before I had life married father of two before I had life insurance. didn't know what it meant, insurance. didn't know what it meant, insurance. didn't know what it meant, didn't understand what it was. didn't understand what it was. didn't understand what it was. Unfortunately, my wife lost her father Unfortunately, my wife lost her father Unfortunately, my wife lost her father and life insurance became a new reality and life insurance became a new reality and life insurance became a new reality for me. I didn't realize how much for me. I didn't realize how much for me. I didn't realize how much responsibility people had after losing a responsibility people had after losing a responsibility people had after losing a loved one. I didn't realize how loved one. I didn't realize how loved one. I didn't realize how important life insurance was until a important life insurance was until a important life insurance was until a mother-in-law was greatly taken care of mother-in-law was greatly taken care of mother-in-law was greatly taken care of after losing her husband. That's when it after losing her husband. That's when it after losing her husband. That's when it got painfully obvious to me that it was got painfully obvious to me that it was got painfully obvious to me that it was important for my loved ones, my kids and important for my loved ones, my kids and important for my loved ones, my kids and my wife, to have that stability if my wife, to have that stability if my wife, to have that stability if something were to ever happen to me, something were to ever happen to me, something were to ever happen to me, especially as the primary bread winner especially as the primary bread winner especially as the primary bread winner in my household. So, running a household in my household. So, running a household in my household. So, running a household is a lot, especially if you got kids. is a lot, especially if you got kids. is a lot, especially if you got kids. And having a family plan in place that And having a family plan in place that And having a family plan in place that can help you wrangle the chaos is great, can help you wrangle the chaos is great, can help you wrangle the chaos is great, but does your household have a plan for but does your household have a plan for but does your household have a plan for protecting your family's financial protecting your family's financial protecting your family's financial future? I mean, if something unexpected future? I mean, if something unexpected future? I mean, if something unexpected happens to you, what are you going to happens to you, what are you going to happens to you, what are you going to do? Well, if you don't have a plan, do? Well, if you don't have a plan, do? Well, if you don't have a plan, Fabric can help. Fabric by Gerber Life Fabric can help. Fabric by Gerber Life Fabric can help. Fabric by Gerber Life is term life insurance that you can get is term life insurance that you can get is term life insurance that you can get done today. It's made for busy parents done today. It's made for busy parents done today. It's made for busy parents just like you. It's all online. It's on just like you. It's all online. It's on just like you. It's all online. It's on your schedule and it's right from your your schedule and it's right from your your schedule and it's right from your couch. So, you're covered in under 10 couch. So, you're covered in under 10 couch. So, you're covered in under 10 minutes with no health exam required. minutes with no health exam required. minutes with no health exam required. And that's important. Even if you have And that's important. Even if you have And that's important. Even if you have life insurance through your employer, it life insurance through your employer, it life insurance through your employer, it may not offer you enough protection for may not offer you enough protection for may not offer you enough protection for your family and it may not follow you if your family and it may not follow you if your family and it may not follow you if you leave your job. What Fabric has is you leave your job. What Fabric has is you leave your job. What Fabric has is flexible, high quality policies that are flexible, high quality policies that are flexible, high quality policies that are going to fit your family and your going to fit your family and your going to fit your family and your budget. Like a million dollars in budget. Like a million dollars in budget. Like a million dollars in coverage for less than a dollar a day. coverage for less than a dollar a day. coverage for less than a dollar a day. Fabric's partnered with Gerber Life, Fabric's partnered with Gerber Life, Fabric's partnered with Gerber Life, trusted by millions of families just trusted by millions of families just trusted by millions of families just like yours for over 50 years. So what like yours for over 50 years. So what like yours for over 50 years. So what you got to do? You got to join the you got to do? You got to join the you got to do? You got to join the thousands of parents who trust Fabric to thousands of parents who trust Fabric to thousands of parents who trust Fabric to help protect their family. What are you help protect their family. What are you help protect their family. What are you waiting for? You need to apply today in waiting for? You need to apply today in waiting for? You need to apply today in minutes at meetfabric.com/lrae. minutes at meetfabric.com/lrae. minutes at meetfabric.com/lrae. policies are issued by Western Southern policies are issued by Western Southern policies are issued by Western Southern Life Insurance Company. They're not Life Insurance Company. They're not Life Insurance Company. They're not available in certain states and prices available in certain states and prices available in certain states and prices are subject to underwriting and health are subject to underwriting and health are subject to underwriting and health questions. All right, so you probably questions. All right, so you probably questions. All right, so you probably are thinking like, I got lots of money are thinking like, I got lots of money are thinking like, I got lots of money and I got lots of time to spend time in and I got lots of time to spend time in and I got lots of time to spend time in the kitchen making delicious food at the kitchen making delicious food at the kitchen making delicious food at home. No, you don't. And neither do I. home. No, you don't. And neither do I. home. No, you don't. And neither do I. You don't have the time and you don't You don't have the time and you don't You don't have the time and you don't want to spend a lot of money. So that's want to spend a lot of money. So that's want to spend a lot of money. So that's why what you want to do is use Every why what you want to do is use Every why what you want to do is use Every Plate. Every Plate is dope because you Plate. Every Plate is dope because you Plate. Every Plate is dope because you get restaurant level amazing food week get restaurant level amazing food week get restaurant level amazing food week after week. You get amazing recipes like after week. You get amazing recipes like after week. You get amazing recipes like crispy buffalo ranch chicken, cheesy crispy buffalo ranch chicken, cheesy crispy buffalo ranch chicken, cheesy Mexican street corn hash. I'm just Mexican street corn hash. I'm just Mexican street corn hash. I'm just trying to tell you, man. I'm too busy to trying to tell you, man. I'm too busy to trying to tell you, man. I'm too busy to cook every night. So, these meals are cook every night. So, these meals are cook every night. So, these meals are quality and quantity that I need. And quality and quantity that I need. And quality and quantity that I need. And I'm just trying to help you. Like, I I'm just trying to help you. Like, I I'm just trying to help you. Like, I need the help. Listen, amazing need the help. Listen, amazing need the help. Listen, amazing flavor-packed homemade meals you would flavor-packed homemade meals you would flavor-packed homemade meals you would eat on a normal night after going to the eat on a normal night after going to the eat on a normal night after going to the grocery store and you're cooking up grocery store and you're cooking up grocery store and you're cooking up these same things over and over. No. these same things over and over. No. these same things over and over. No. What are you doing, man? Up your dinner What are you doing, man? Up your dinner What are you doing, man? Up your dinner game. 30 minutes or less. Every Plate's game. 30 minutes or less. Every Plate's game. 30 minutes or less. Every Plate's clear, easy to follow recipes are what clear, easy to follow recipes are what clear, easy to follow recipes are what you need in your life. Thanks to Every you need in your life. Thanks to Every you need in your life. Thanks to Every Plate's constantly rotating weekly Plate's constantly rotating weekly Plate's constantly rotating weekly recipes delivered right to your door. recipes delivered right to your door. recipes delivered right to your door. You're always going to have the best You're always going to have the best You're always going to have the best answer to what's for dinner. I'm trying answer to what's for dinner. I'm trying answer to what's for dinner. I'm trying to tell y'all, Every Plate is where it's to tell y'all, Every Plate is where it's to tell y'all, Every Plate is where it's at. So, what are you doing? What are you at. So, what are you doing? What are you at. So, what are you doing? What are you waiting for? You going to cook tonight? waiting for? You going to cook tonight? waiting for? You going to cook tonight? I get tired of cooking. I'm going to I get tired of cooking. I'm going to I get tired of cooking. I'm going to cook in my house and I'm tired of it. cook in my house and I'm tired of it. cook in my house and I'm tired of it. So, I need meals to order. You stop So, I need meals to order. You stop So, I need meals to order. You stop spending all that money on those those spending all that money on those those spending all that money on those those food apps that send food your house and food apps that send food your house and food apps that send food your house and you spend it all that extra money. You you spend it all that extra money. You you spend it all that extra money. You can get something delicious that takes can get something delicious that takes can get something delicious that takes 30 minutes to make. You don't have to 30 minutes to make. You don't have to 30 minutes to make. You don't have to stress. The recipes there. So, listen. stress. The recipes there. So, listen. stress. The recipes there. So, listen. Trust me. Dig into these meals, man. New Trust me. Dig into these meals, man. New Trust me. Dig into these meals, man. New customers are going to enjoy this customers are going to enjoy this customers are going to enjoy this special offer of $1.99 a meal. I'm special offer of $1.99 a meal. I'm special offer of $1.99 a meal. I'm giving you that. I'm hooking you up. So, giving you that. I'm hooking you up. So, giving you that. I'm hooking you up. So, go to everyplate.com/mpodcast go to everyplate.com/mpodcast go to everyplate.com/mpodcast and then use my code larae. and then use my code larae. and then use my code larae. Everyplate.com/mpodcast. Everyplate.com/mpodcast. Everyplate.com/mpodcast. Use my code 1999. It's going to be Use my code 1999. It's going to be Use my code 1999. It's going to be applied as a discount on your first box. applied as a discount on your first box. applied as a discount on your first box. It's a limited time only. Let's do it. It's a limited time only. Let's do it. It's a limited time only. Let's do it. Another thing is I remember me and my Another thing is I remember me and my Another thing is I remember me and my buddy KB, we were having this buddy KB, we were having this buddy KB, we were having this conversation because, conversation because, conversation because, you know, both of us would go out on the you know, both of us would go out on the you know, both of us would go out on the streets and we would share and the streets and we would share and the streets and we would share and the statistic came back that like the statistic came back that like the statistic came back that like the percentages of conversion from street percentages of conversion from street percentages of conversion from street evangelism are extremely low. Like the evangelism are extremely low. Like the evangelism are extremely low. Like the highest rate of conversion is generally highest rate of conversion is generally highest rate of conversion is generally through relationships, right? through relationships, right? through relationships, right? &gt;&gt; So why would you choose literally the &gt;&gt; So why would you choose literally the &gt;&gt; So why would you choose literally the hardest form of reaching people? There's hardest form of reaching people? There's hardest form of reaching people? There's so many ways to reach people. Like, so many ways to reach people. Like, so many ways to reach people. Like, there's a million ways to do it. But there's a million ways to do it. But there's a million ways to do it. But you're like, I'm going to go talk to you're like, I'm going to go talk to you're like, I'm going to go talk to strangers on the street. Why is that for strangers on the street. Why is that for strangers on the street. Why is that for you, you, you, &gt;&gt; man? Because I feel like we need to meet &gt;&gt; man? Because I feel like we need to meet &gt;&gt; man? Because I feel like we need to meet people where they're at. people where they're at. people where they're at. &gt;&gt; I remember because of my bitterness &gt;&gt; I remember because of my bitterness &gt;&gt; I remember because of my bitterness towards God, because I thought God was towards God, because I thought God was towards God, because I thought God was the like the author of my suffering, the like the author of my suffering, the like the author of my suffering, &gt;&gt; which wasn't true. But because I thought &gt;&gt; which wasn't true. But because I thought &gt;&gt; which wasn't true. But because I thought that, I didn't want anything to do with that, I didn't want anything to do with that, I didn't want anything to do with relationship with him. relationship with him. relationship with him. &gt;&gt; And no one ever preached the gospel to &gt;&gt; And no one ever preached the gospel to &gt;&gt; And no one ever preached the gospel to me. That was the craziest thing to me me. That was the craziest thing to me me. That was the craziest thing to me looking back on my life before Jesus. looking back on my life before Jesus. looking back on my life before Jesus. Like, no one preached the gospel to me. Like, no one preached the gospel to me. Like, no one preached the gospel to me. &gt;&gt; That breaks my heart to think that like, &gt;&gt; That breaks my heart to think that like, &gt;&gt; That breaks my heart to think that like, man, I was hurting, but maybe people man, I was hurting, but maybe people man, I was hurting, but maybe people were too scared were too scared were too scared &gt;&gt; or people were being passive or people &gt;&gt; or people were being passive or people &gt;&gt; or people were being passive or people were this. And every human being is were this. And every human being is were this. And every human being is eternal. When I walk by someone on the eternal. When I walk by someone on the eternal. When I walk by someone on the street, I'm like, I don't know where street, I'm like, I don't know where street, I'm like, I don't know where that person's going. I don't know where that person's going. I don't know where that person's going. I don't know where they're at with God. I don't know if they're at with God. I don't know if they're at with God. I don't know if they're hurting. And so I I I asked God they're hurting. And so I I I asked God they're hurting. And so I I I asked God to send me to the darkest places, to the to send me to the darkest places, to the to send me to the darkest places, to the most hurt people, and like let me be most hurt people, and like let me be most hurt people, and like let me be that guy that you use because if I can that guy that you use because if I can that guy that you use because if I can be that guy, it might just encourage be that guy, it might just encourage be that guy, it might just encourage someone to tell their friend at 10 someone to tell their friend at 10 someone to tell their friend at 10 years, "Hey, do you want to come to years, "Hey, do you want to come to years, "Hey, do you want to come to church?" church?" church?" &gt;&gt; You know, and so we're building &gt;&gt; You know, and so we're building &gt;&gt; You know, and so we're building relationships with these people. I'm relationships with these people. I'm relationships with these people. I'm following up with everyone we meet in following up with everyone we meet in following up with everyone we meet in the street. I text everyone we meet in the street. I text everyone we meet in the street. I text everyone we meet in the street. If they go ghost, you know, the street. If they go ghost, you know, the street. If they go ghost, you know, I can't control that. But that's a part I can't control that. But that's a part I can't control that. But that's a part of the great commission. It says, "Go of the great commission. It says, "Go of the great commission. It says, "Go into all the earth, preach the gospel to into all the earth, preach the gospel to into all the earth, preach the gospel to all the nations, baptizing them in the all the nations, baptizing them in the all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the father, son, and the holy name of the father, son, and the holy name of the father, son, and the holy spirit." And then it says, "And teach spirit." And then it says, "And teach spirit." And then it says, "And teach them everything that you know." Mhm. them everything that you know." Mhm. them everything that you know." Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And we forget that. It's like I'm going &gt;&gt; And we forget that. It's like I'm going &gt;&gt; And we forget that. It's like I'm going to go out there. But man, like we can't to go out there. But man, like we can't to go out there. But man, like we can't forget about those people. forget about those people. forget about those people. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; We can't forget about them. &gt;&gt; We can't forget about them. &gt;&gt; We can't forget about them. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um when you're out there, I I one story I when you're out there, I I one story I when you're out there, I I one story I remember specifically for me and I'm remember specifically for me and I'm remember specifically for me and I'm curious what what your experience has curious what what your experience has curious what what your experience has been on on either side. Um, been on on either side. Um, been on on either side. Um, one crazy experience, negative, was I one crazy experience, negative, was I one crazy experience, negative, was I remember being in line at a club and remember being in line at a club and remember being in line at a club and just sharing with people in that line. just sharing with people in that line. just sharing with people in that line. One guy got offended. He was upset. He One guy got offended. He was upset. He One guy got offended. He was upset. He said, "No one wants to hear this." And said, "No one wants to hear this." And said, "No one wants to hear this." And he spit on me. he spit on me. he spit on me. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And &gt;&gt; And &gt;&gt; And you know, I was embarrassed and I was you know, I was embarrassed and I was you know, I was embarrassed and I was like angry and I was like, "Man, what do like angry and I was like, "Man, what do like angry and I was like, "Man, what do I do?" And I was thinking, everyone here I do?" And I was thinking, everyone here I do?" And I was thinking, everyone here is watching to see if I'm gonna walk the is watching to see if I'm gonna walk the is watching to see if I'm gonna walk the talk. talk. talk. &gt;&gt; And I was like, man, I'm going just pray &gt;&gt; And I was like, man, I'm going just pray &gt;&gt; And I was like, man, I'm going just pray for you, bro. You know, and I just for you, bro. You know, and I just for you, bro. You know, and I just prayed for him right prayed for him right prayed for him right &gt;&gt; now. In that moment, I'm like, yo, man, &gt;&gt; now. In that moment, I'm like, yo, man, &gt;&gt; now. In that moment, I'm like, yo, man, this is so disrespectful. And I walked this is so disrespectful. And I walked this is so disrespectful. And I walked away from that like upset and just a away from that like upset and just a away from that like upset and just a little discouraged and just like, what little discouraged and just like, what little discouraged and just like, what the heck am I doing? About three years the heck am I doing? About three years the heck am I doing? About three years later, I'm at this event and a guy comes later, I'm at this event and a guy comes later, I'm at this event and a guy comes up to me and he's like, "Yo, I just up to me and he's like, "Yo, I just up to me and he's like, "Yo, I just wanted to tell you I became a Christian wanted to tell you I became a Christian wanted to tell you I became a Christian in line at a club because you shared the in line at a club because you shared the in line at a club because you shared the gospel with some guy and he spit on you gospel with some guy and he spit on you gospel with some guy and he spit on you &gt;&gt; and I and I just didn't never I never &gt;&gt; and I and I just didn't never I never &gt;&gt; and I and I just didn't never I never thought I would see you again, but thought I would see you again, but thought I would see you again, but you're the guy who was doing the thing." you're the guy who was doing the thing." you're the guy who was doing the thing." &gt;&gt; And that was super encouraging. It took &gt;&gt; And that was super encouraging. It took &gt;&gt; And that was super encouraging. It took three years for me to, you know, see the three years for me to, you know, see the three years for me to, you know, see the fruit. You're over like I got spit on. fruit. You're over like I got spit on. fruit. You're over like I got spit on. &gt;&gt; I'm embarrassed. stop feeling. But I'm &gt;&gt; I'm embarrassed. stop feeling. But I'm &gt;&gt; I'm embarrassed. stop feeling. But I'm curious for you like what has been the curious for you like what has been the curious for you like what has been the areas where you felt failure but then areas where you felt failure but then areas where you felt failure but then you also saw fruit. You know what I you also saw fruit. You know what I you also saw fruit. You know what I mean? mean? mean? &gt;&gt; My senior year of high school, man. I &gt;&gt; My senior year of high school, man. I &gt;&gt; My senior year of high school, man. I mean I went to a private Christian mean I went to a private Christian mean I went to a private Christian school and man I love my school. Like my school and man I love my school. Like my school and man I love my school. Like my Christian school was great. The teachers Christian school was great. The teachers Christian school was great. The teachers are great. The people there are are great. The people there are are great. The people there are phenomenal. But man, my senior year all phenomenal. But man, my senior year all phenomenal. But man, my senior year all my classmates probably thought I don't my classmates probably thought I don't my classmates probably thought I don't know they thought of the if they thought know they thought of the if they thought know they thought of the if they thought I was the righteous police or if they I was the righteous police or if they I was the righteous police or if they thought I thought I was better than thought I thought I was better than thought I thought I was better than them. But at a Christian school, my them. But at a Christian school, my them. But at a Christian school, my senior year, I was the most disliked senior year, I was the most disliked senior year, I was the most disliked dude in my high school. dude in my high school. dude in my high school. &gt;&gt; I got food thrown at me in the student &gt;&gt; I got food thrown at me in the student &gt;&gt; I got food thrown at me in the student section at the football games. No one section at the football games. No one section at the football games. No one would talk to me. People would only talk would talk to me. People would only talk would talk to me. People would only talk to me if they felt like that they had to me if they felt like that they had to me if they felt like that they had done something super awful or wrong. And done something super awful or wrong. And done something super awful or wrong. And then they come and get advice from me. then they come and get advice from me. then they come and get advice from me. I'll never forget this happened in I'll never forget this happened in I'll never forget this happened in finance class. And then I I gave them finance class. And then I I gave them finance class. And then I I gave them advice, prayed for them, and comforted advice, prayed for them, and comforted advice, prayed for them, and comforted them. And then they go to the other side them. And then they go to the other side them. And then they go to the other side of the room and immediately started of the room and immediately started of the room and immediately started making fun of me. They had just came to making fun of me. They had just came to making fun of me. They had just came to me. And I remember sitting there me. And I remember sitting there me. And I remember sitting there thinking, man, God, like what is going thinking, man, God, like what is going thinking, man, God, like what is going on? I'm going to private Christian on? I'm going to private Christian on? I'm going to private Christian school right now and I'm the most school right now and I'm the most school right now and I'm the most unpopular dude in the high school right unpopular dude in the high school right unpopular dude in the high school right now. now. now. &gt;&gt; And I was just battling in my heart &gt;&gt; And I was just battling in my heart &gt;&gt; And I was just battling in my heart going like, do I have a right to react going like, do I have a right to react going like, do I have a right to react to these people? Like, don't don't I to these people? Like, don't don't I to these people? Like, don't don't I just have a right? I mean, they don't just have a right? I mean, they don't just have a right? I mean, they don't even know my heart. They don't know who even know my heart. They don't know who even know my heart. They don't know who I am. They're not even asking about me. I am. They're not even asking about me. I am. They're not even asking about me. They don't even care about me. And I They don't even care about me. And I They don't even care about me. And I read that scripture in Acts 7 where read that scripture in Acts 7 where read that scripture in Acts 7 where Steven is getting stoned by the Steven is getting stoned by the Steven is getting stoned by the Sanhedrin and it he looks up to heaven Sanhedrin and it he looks up to heaven Sanhedrin and it he looks up to heaven and it's the only time Jesus is and it's the only time Jesus is and it's the only time Jesus is referenced standing at the right hand of referenced standing at the right hand of referenced standing at the right hand of God. God. God. &gt;&gt; Every other time in scripture he's &gt;&gt; Every other time in scripture he's &gt;&gt; Every other time in scripture he's sitting at the right hand of God but sitting at the right hand of God but sitting at the right hand of God but this time he's standing. this time he's standing. this time he's standing. &gt;&gt; And I began to just kind of like ex try &gt;&gt; And I began to just kind of like ex try &gt;&gt; And I began to just kind of like ex try to experience like what is going on here to experience like what is going on here to experience like what is going on here and just imagining like what is Stephen and just imagining like what is Stephen and just imagining like what is Stephen going through? And I can just imagine going through? And I can just imagine going through? And I can just imagine Jesus standing off his throne clapping Jesus standing off his throne clapping Jesus standing off his throne clapping for Stephen going man that's my son. I'm for Stephen going man that's my son. I'm for Stephen going man that's my son. I'm proud of you. I thank you for standing proud of you. I thank you for standing proud of you. I thank you for standing up for me. After high school, I was up for me. After high school, I was up for me. After high school, I was getting a phone call every week, two getting a phone call every week, two getting a phone call every week, two weeks, month from people that made fun weeks, month from people that made fun weeks, month from people that made fun of me, had something to say, that were of me, had something to say, that were of me, had something to say, that were turning to Jesus and now are like all turning to Jesus and now are like all turning to Jesus and now are like all in. And in. And in. And &gt;&gt; and so that was when it was like &gt;&gt; and so that was when it was like &gt;&gt; and so that was when it was like &gt;&gt; that was worth it. That was worth it. I &gt;&gt; that was worth it. That was worth it. I &gt;&gt; that was worth it. That was worth it. I mean, there's fruit that Billy Graham mean, there's fruit that Billy Graham mean, there's fruit that Billy Graham has seown has seown has seown &gt;&gt; seeds in. He didn't even watch him sew &gt;&gt; seeds in. He didn't even watch him sew &gt;&gt; seeds in. He didn't even watch him sew the seed. Mhm. the seed. Mhm. the seed. Mhm. &gt;&gt; He's been sewing seeds in in people in &gt;&gt; He's been sewing seeds in in people in &gt;&gt; He's been sewing seeds in in people in that are being raised up in this that are being raised up in this that are being raised up in this generation generation generation &gt;&gt; that he just hasn't seen and he's &gt;&gt; that he just hasn't seen and he's &gt;&gt; that he just hasn't seen and he's reaping the harvest and the fruit is reaping the harvest and the fruit is reaping the harvest and the fruit is fall. You know what I mean? So, it's fall. You know what I mean? So, it's fall. You know what I mean? So, it's just like I think it's just all about just like I think it's just all about just like I think it's just all about playing the long game, man. Like playing the long game, man. Like playing the long game, man. Like sometimes people make it about sometimes people make it about sometimes people make it about themselves and I was making it about themselves and I was making it about themselves and I was making it about myself in high school going, "Man, no myself in high school going, "Man, no myself in high school going, "Man, no one's no one's coming to Jesus right now one's no one's coming to Jesus right now one's no one's coming to Jesus right now and I'm trying my best, you know?" Like, and I'm trying my best, you know?" Like, and I'm trying my best, you know?" Like, but now it's like, but now it's like, but now it's like, &gt;&gt; man, God, I guess it doesn't matter if &gt;&gt; man, God, I guess it doesn't matter if &gt;&gt; man, God, I guess it doesn't matter if it takes 10 years, 20 years, or 10 it takes 10 years, 20 years, or 10 it takes 10 years, 20 years, or 10 minutes. It's like I I want to be the minutes. It's like I I want to be the minutes. It's like I I want to be the guy that you use to bring bring glory to guy that you use to bring bring glory to guy that you use to bring bring glory to you. So you. So you. So &gt;&gt; that's really good, man. It's it's &gt;&gt; that's really good, man. It's it's &gt;&gt; that's really good, man. It's it's funny. It reminds me of a saying that I funny. It reminds me of a saying that I funny. It reminds me of a saying that I I I keep tucked away in those types of I I keep tucked away in those types of I I keep tucked away in those types of times is that, times is that, times is that, &gt;&gt; you know, man is always counting the &gt;&gt; you know, man is always counting the &gt;&gt; you know, man is always counting the fruit, the seeds in the fruit, but God fruit, the seeds in the fruit, but God fruit, the seeds in the fruit, but God is counting the fruit in the seeds. is counting the fruit in the seeds. is counting the fruit in the seeds. &gt;&gt; And it's our job to just listen, just &gt;&gt; And it's our job to just listen, just &gt;&gt; And it's our job to just listen, just plant the seeds. Like you don't know plant the seeds. Like you don't know plant the seeds. Like you don't know what's on the other side of that. just what's on the other side of that. just what's on the other side of that. just &gt;&gt; we're always like, "Oh man, how many &gt;&gt; we're always like, "Oh man, how many &gt;&gt; we're always like, "Oh man, how many seeds is in that thing?" And you just seeds is in that thing?" And you just seeds is in that thing?" And you just don't know, but God does know don't know, but God does know don't know, but God does know &gt;&gt; how many trees are going to bloom from &gt;&gt; how many trees are going to bloom from &gt;&gt; how many trees are going to bloom from the seed that you planted. the seed that you planted. the seed that you planted. &gt;&gt; And so, man, I would say be encouraged &gt;&gt; And so, man, I would say be encouraged &gt;&gt; And so, man, I would say be encouraged in that. It's it's a rough road and I in that. It's it's a rough road and I in that. It's it's a rough road and I like your your motive or at least what like your your motive or at least what like your your motive or at least what you're articulating as your motive you're articulating as your motive you're articulating as your motive because a lot of people man because a lot of people man because a lot of people man &gt;&gt; it's like it's spiritual pride you know &gt;&gt; it's like it's spiritual pride you know &gt;&gt; it's like it's spiritual pride you know and I see them and I'm just like yo man and I see them and I'm just like yo man and I see them and I'm just like yo man no one is coming to Jesus from that like no one is coming to Jesus from that like no one is coming to Jesus from that like you are you are you are &gt;&gt; you are just in an argument with them &gt;&gt; you are just in an argument with them &gt;&gt; you are just in an argument with them and telling them you're going to hell and telling them you're going to hell and telling them you're going to hell and it's like who wants who feels like a and it's like who wants who feels like a and it's like who wants who feels like a loving God who wants to run to a loving loving God who wants to run to a loving loving God who wants to run to a loving God you know if their representative God you know if their representative God you know if their representative just came down and told them, "You're just came down and told them, "You're just came down and told them, "You're the worst thing ever." You know what I the worst thing ever." You know what I the worst thing ever." You know what I mean? What's on the other side of that? mean? What's on the other side of that? mean? What's on the other side of that? What's on the other side of repentance? What's on the other side of repentance? What's on the other side of repentance? And is it love? You know, you often hear And is it love? You know, you often hear And is it love? You know, you often hear the the example of uh you go into court the the example of uh you go into court the the example of uh you go into court and it's like Jesus is your attorney and and it's like Jesus is your attorney and and it's like Jesus is your attorney and God is the judge and then now you're God is the judge and then now you're God is the judge and then now you're you're not guilty. And that's a cool you're not guilty. And that's a cool you're not guilty. And that's a cool model except for the fact that at the model except for the fact that at the model except for the fact that at the end of that there's no sense of love. end of that there's no sense of love. end of that there's no sense of love. There's no sense of like the judge isn't There's no sense of like the judge isn't There's no sense of like the judge isn't like coming down off the stand like come like coming down off the stand like come like coming down off the stand like come on I love you now like you know the on I love you now like you know the on I love you now like you know the lawyer's not like hey man I love you so lawyer's not like hey man I love you so lawyer's not like hey man I love you so much like it's just it kind of I get it much like it's just it kind of I get it much like it's just it kind of I get it but it just falls short in a way and I but it just falls short in a way and I but it just falls short in a way and I think some of us just want to think some of us just want to think some of us just want to &gt;&gt; tell people they're guilty and they need &gt;&gt; tell people they're guilty and they need &gt;&gt; tell people they're guilty and they need a good lawyer. a good lawyer. a good lawyer. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Instead of like you're broken &gt;&gt; Instead of like you're broken &gt;&gt; Instead of like you're broken and you're feeling unloved and you don't and you're feeling unloved and you don't and you're feeling unloved and you don't know you can come to the place where it know you can come to the place where it know you can come to the place where it exists. You don't know you can come to exists. You don't know you can come to exists. You don't know you can come to Jesus where you can find wholeness. And Jesus where you can find wholeness. And Jesus where you can find wholeness. And I see you I see you I see you &gt;&gt; doing that, bro. &gt;&gt; doing that, bro. &gt;&gt; doing that, bro. &gt;&gt; So, &gt;&gt; So, &gt;&gt; So, &gt;&gt; be encouraged, man. &gt;&gt; be encouraged, man. &gt;&gt; be encouraged, man. &gt;&gt; I am encouraged. Thanks for that. &gt;&gt; I am encouraged. Thanks for that. &gt;&gt; I am encouraged. Thanks for that. &gt;&gt; Be encouraged. Um, I want to hit you &gt;&gt; Be encouraged. Um, I want to hit you &gt;&gt; Be encouraged. Um, I want to hit you with a couple underwater questions. with a couple underwater questions. with a couple underwater questions. &gt;&gt; Come on. &gt;&gt; Come on. &gt;&gt; Come on. &gt;&gt; Cuz I just, you know, I got to got to do &gt;&gt; Cuz I just, you know, I got to got to do &gt;&gt; Cuz I just, you know, I got to got to do it. Um, all right. Gen Z chronically it. Um, all right. Gen Z chronically it. Um, all right. Gen Z chronically online, as I've already mentioned, online, as I've already mentioned, online, as I've already mentioned, &gt;&gt; for sure &gt;&gt; for sure &gt;&gt; for sure &gt;&gt; being foreign by what they watch. Um, &gt;&gt; being foreign by what they watch. Um, &gt;&gt; being foreign by what they watch. Um, a lot of the shows they watch a lot of the shows they watch a lot of the shows they watch form their perspective. form their perspective. form their perspective. Uh, one of those that just ended was Uh, one of those that just ended was Uh, one of those that just ended was this little show called Love Island. this little show called Love Island. this little show called Love Island. [Laughter] [Laughter] [Laughter] I want I want just your hot take. I want I want just your hot take. I want I want just your hot take. You know what I'm saying? You know what I'm saying? You know what I'm saying? &gt;&gt; Well, my hot take. I was affected by &gt;&gt; Well, my hot take. I was affected by &gt;&gt; Well, my hot take. I was affected by Love Island. Uh, I got caught in the Love Island. Uh, I got caught in the Love Island. Uh, I got caught in the swirl on TikTok like what's popular? swirl on TikTok like what's popular? swirl on TikTok like what's popular? What's popular? Everyone's like, "Love What's popular? Everyone's like, "Love What's popular? Everyone's like, "Love Island." And you know, I remember being Island." And you know, I remember being Island." And you know, I remember being young watching The Bachelor and The young watching The Bachelor and The young watching The Bachelor and The Bachelorette growing up, so I'm like, Bachelorette growing up, so I'm like, Bachelorette growing up, so I'm like, "This can't be that much worse than "This can't be that much worse than "This can't be that much worse than that, bro. that, bro. that, bro. &gt;&gt; Bro, you want to talk about &gt;&gt; Bro, you want to talk about &gt;&gt; Bro, you want to talk about Wow." Wow." Wow." &gt;&gt; Uh yeah. And and to be honest, the first &gt;&gt; Uh yeah. And and to be honest, the first &gt;&gt; Uh yeah. And and to be honest, the first couple episodes, like I was watching a couple episodes, like I was watching a couple episodes, like I was watching a wash, man. I was invested. I was wash, man. I was invested. I was wash, man. I was invested. I was watching Love Island. And then I was at watching Love Island. And then I was at watching Love Island. And then I was at a wedding and I was talking to these two a wedding and I was talking to these two a wedding and I was talking to these two dudes about it and I'm going, "Bro, did dudes about it and I'm going, "Bro, did dudes about it and I'm going, "Bro, did you see this person? they're a you see this person? they're a you see this person? they're a psychopath and they did this and they psychopath and they did this and they psychopath and they did this and they did that. Someone caught a video of it did that. Someone caught a video of it did that. Someone caught a video of it &gt;&gt; and they put it on the internet and I &gt;&gt; and they put it on the internet and I &gt;&gt; and they put it on the internet and I didn't, you know, I didn't even think didn't, you know, I didn't even think didn't, you know, I didn't even think anything of it. And I watched the video anything of it. And I watched the video anything of it. And I watched the video and, you know, I was glad that the video and, you know, I was glad that the video and, you know, I was glad that the video hit the internet because I saw it hit the internet because I saw it hit the internet because I saw it &gt;&gt; and I saw how that show was allowing me &gt;&gt; and I saw how that show was allowing me &gt;&gt; and I saw how that show was allowing me to gossip about people I had never met to gossip about people I had never met to gossip about people I had never met before. before. before. [Music] [Music] [Music] &gt;&gt; That our eyes and our ears are the &gt;&gt; That our eyes and our ears are the &gt;&gt; That our eyes and our ears are the windows to our soul. What we consume is windows to our soul. What we consume is windows to our soul. What we consume is what we become. And what I had become what we become. And what I had become what we become. And what I had become was a product of what the show was was a product of what the show was was a product of what the show was producing. I was becoming a gossipfilled producing. I was becoming a gossipfilled producing. I was becoming a gossipfilled &gt;&gt; sucker for drama &gt;&gt; sucker for drama &gt;&gt; sucker for drama &gt;&gt; and that's just not who I am. And I &gt;&gt; and that's just not who I am. And I &gt;&gt; and that's just not who I am. And I watched it and I was like, "Oh my gosh, watched it and I was like, "Oh my gosh, watched it and I was like, "Oh my gosh, that's the last thing I want to do." And that's the last thing I want to do." And that's the last thing I want to do." And then I started to feel the conviction of then I started to feel the conviction of then I started to feel the conviction of the Lord seeping in my heart and then the Lord seeping in my heart and then the Lord seeping in my heart and then just noticed how that show even though I just noticed how that show even though I just noticed how that show even though I thought nothing was going on was was thought nothing was going on was was thought nothing was going on was was affecting my heart. So I said, "I got to affecting my heart. So I said, "I got to affecting my heart. So I said, "I got to cut that out." That was and I was just cut that out." That was and I was just cut that out." That was and I was just blinded to what blinded to what blinded to what &gt;&gt; society was feeding me and I said, "Man, &gt;&gt; society was feeding me and I said, "Man, &gt;&gt; society was feeding me and I said, "Man, that's awful." So like just know like I that's awful." So like just know like I that's awful." So like just know like I I don't say this as a shamefully of like I don't say this as a shamefully of like I don't say this as a shamefully of like stop watching Love Island. I was stop watching Love Island. I was stop watching Love Island. I was watching it and then I stopped. So, stop watching it and then I stopped. So, stop watching it and then I stopped. So, stop watching it. Stop watching the show. watching it. Stop watching the show. watching it. Stop watching the show. &gt;&gt; There's grace for you, too, man. There's &gt;&gt; There's grace for you, too, man. There's &gt;&gt; There's grace for you, too, man. There's grace for you for your Love Island swirl grace for you for your Love Island swirl grace for you for your Love Island swirl that you got caught in. that you got caught in. that you got caught in. &gt;&gt; I got a swirl. I I get it, brother. I &gt;&gt; I got a swirl. I I get it, brother. I &gt;&gt; I got a swirl. I I get it, brother. I get it. I totally understand, get it. I totally understand, get it. I totally understand, &gt;&gt; man. They make TV too juicy now. &gt;&gt; man. They make TV too juicy now. &gt;&gt; man. They make TV too juicy now. &gt;&gt; Oh, bro. It's like a real They put a &gt;&gt; Oh, bro. It's like a real They put a &gt;&gt; Oh, bro. It's like a real They put a hook in you and you're like, "What the hook in you and you're like, "What the hook in you and you're like, "What the heck? What am I like if you take a step heck? What am I like if you take a step heck? What am I like if you take a step back?" Sometimes I, you know, my wife, back?" Sometimes I, you know, my wife, back?" Sometimes I, you know, my wife, she'll be watching like one of the she'll be watching like one of the she'll be watching like one of the reality series and I'm not, I don't care reality series and I'm not, I don't care reality series and I'm not, I don't care about them. And then I walk in there mid about them. And then I walk in there mid about them. And then I walk in there mid episode. I'm like, the heck is this? You episode. I'm like, the heck is this? You episode. I'm like, the heck is this? You don't understand. You don't get, you don't understand. You don't get, you don't understand. You don't get, you know, not enough. No, no, no. I've seen know, not enough. No, no, no. I've seen know, not enough. No, no, no. I've seen enough. enough. enough. &gt;&gt; Yeah. They they do you dirty with the &gt;&gt; Yeah. They they do you dirty with the &gt;&gt; Yeah. They they do you dirty with the hooks, man. They make it look worse than hooks, man. They make it look worse than hooks, man. They make it look worse than it is. Like they make it look like it is. Like they make it look like it is. Like they make it look like they've been fighting for three days and they've been fighting for three days and they've been fighting for three days and really they're just fighting over who really they're just fighting over who really they're just fighting over who got to the coffee maker first. got to the coffee maker first. got to the coffee maker first. &gt;&gt; Bro, they do it bad. So crazy. &gt;&gt; Bro, they do it bad. So crazy. &gt;&gt; Bro, they do it bad. So crazy. &gt;&gt; I just try to stay away from reality TV &gt;&gt; I just try to stay away from reality TV &gt;&gt; I just try to stay away from reality TV now, man. Oh, I got another one for you, now, man. Oh, I got another one for you, now, man. Oh, I got another one for you, bro. I got two more underwater bro. I got two more underwater bro. I got two more underwater questions. All right, so this one right questions. All right, so this one right questions. All right, so this one right here. Um, here. Um, here. Um, what's the dark side of the Christian what's the dark side of the Christian what's the dark side of the Christian content creation world? content creation world? content creation world? &gt;&gt; Man, the dark side of the Christian &gt;&gt; Man, the dark side of the Christian &gt;&gt; Man, the dark side of the Christian content creation world, content creation world, content creation world, &gt;&gt; the stuff that nobody's talking about, &gt;&gt; the stuff that nobody's talking about, &gt;&gt; the stuff that nobody's talking about, baby. Like, what's the dark side? baby. Like, what's the dark side? baby. Like, what's the dark side? &gt;&gt; I got to dig up some deep lore right &gt;&gt; I got to dig up some deep lore right &gt;&gt; I got to dig up some deep lore right now. Uh, man, I think the dark side of now. Uh, man, I think the dark side of now. Uh, man, I think the dark side of the Christian content world is the Christian content world is the Christian content world is convincing people that like, oh, you're convincing people that like, oh, you're convincing people that like, oh, you're saved, so now you got to go make saved, so now you got to go make saved, so now you got to go make Christian content. Christian content. Christian content. &gt;&gt; That is a product for deconstruction &gt;&gt; That is a product for deconstruction &gt;&gt; That is a product for deconstruction right there. right there. right there. &gt;&gt; They say, "Oh, the second you get saved, &gt;&gt; They say, "Oh, the second you get saved, &gt;&gt; They say, "Oh, the second you get saved, go make Christian videos and all this go make Christian videos and all this go make Christian videos and all this other stuff." Like when I first became a other stuff." Like when I first became a other stuff." Like when I first became a Christian, there was a bunch of I became Christian, there was a bunch of I became Christian, there was a bunch of I became friends with a bunch of people that were friends with a bunch of people that were friends with a bunch of people that were doing Christian social media to any way, doing Christian social media to any way, doing Christian social media to any way, shape, or extreme form or whatever. Half shape, or extreme form or whatever. Half shape, or extreme form or whatever. Half of them aren't even Christians anymore. of them aren't even Christians anymore. of them aren't even Christians anymore. &gt;&gt; And I think there's that like that dark &gt;&gt; And I think there's that like that dark &gt;&gt; And I think there's that like that dark part to it where it's like we got so part to it where it's like we got so part to it where it's like we got so many people that are jumping into many people that are jumping into many people that are jumping into Christian content where they think it's Christian content where they think it's Christian content where they think it's for the sake of the Lord, but really for the sake of the Lord, but really for the sake of the Lord, but really it's just for the sake of oh no, I got it's just for the sake of oh no, I got it's just for the sake of oh no, I got something to post on the internet or something to post on the internet or something to post on the internet or Christianity is popular, so I'm going to Christianity is popular, so I'm going to Christianity is popular, so I'm going to get get my two cents from the bag. And get get my two cents from the bag. And get get my two cents from the bag. And it's like, well, not for the sake of it's like, well, not for the sake of it's like, well, not for the sake of your soul. your soul. your soul. &gt;&gt; Like, why would you &gt;&gt; Like, why would you &gt;&gt; Like, why would you &gt;&gt; I don't want to I don't want to sell out &gt;&gt; I don't want to I don't want to sell out &gt;&gt; I don't want to I don't want to sell out for my soul. Every day, like, if I'm for my soul. Every day, like, if I'm for my soul. Every day, like, if I'm being real, every day I go, man, God, being real, every day I go, man, God, being real, every day I go, man, God, when is the day that I can disappear when is the day that I can disappear when is the day that I can disappear from the internet with a flip phone and from the internet with a flip phone and from the internet with a flip phone and live in a town of like 32 people and no live in a town of like 32 people and no live in a town of like 32 people and no one knows, but every day, God's not done one knows, but every day, God's not done one knows, but every day, God's not done with what we're doing yet. So, I think with what we're doing yet. So, I think with what we're doing yet. So, I think living open-handed versus saying, "Got living open-handed versus saying, "Got living open-handed versus saying, "Got to become a slave to this and I got to to become a slave to this and I got to to become a slave to this and I got to do this." Man, that's the wor that's the do this." Man, that's the wor that's the do this." Man, that's the wor that's the saddest thing is because then when when saddest thing is because then when when saddest thing is because then when when you're around the people in the ind in you're around the people in the ind in you're around the people in the ind in the Christian content industry, like the Christian content industry, like the Christian content industry, like it's an industry, but like when you're it's an industry, but like when you're it's an industry, but like when you're around people that do it and you just around people that do it and you just around people that do it and you just see the people that are hurt and they see the people that are hurt and they see the people that are hurt and they see people that are going through it, see people that are going through it, see people that are going through it, it's because they're not focusing on it's because they're not focusing on it's because they're not focusing on disciplehip and they're not focusing on disciplehip and they're not focusing on disciplehip and they're not focusing on um plugging into the local church, not um plugging into the local church, not um plugging into the local church, not focused on that. They're just focused on focused on that. They're just focused on focused on that. They're just focused on how many views they can get on a video. how many views they can get on a video. how many views they can get on a video. And that just that that breaks my heart. And that just that that breaks my heart. And that just that that breaks my heart. It hurts my heart. It hurts my heart. It hurts my heart. &gt;&gt; That's crazy. Last one. I I know all the places you've gone, all I know all the places you've gone, all I know all the places you've gone, all the people you've encountered, you have the people you've encountered, you have the people you've encountered, you have got some crazy experiences. got some crazy experiences. got some crazy experiences. Like some of them, some of the people Like some of them, some of the people Like some of them, some of the people I'm like alone are like, whoa. Like, I'm like alone are like, whoa. Like, I'm like alone are like, whoa. Like, wow, I didn't know this person existed. wow, I didn't know this person existed. wow, I didn't know this person existed. Like the one guy with the giant crystal Like the one guy with the giant crystal Like the one guy with the giant crystal staff, like I was like, yo, that's wild. staff, like I was like, yo, that's wild. staff, like I was like, yo, that's wild. &gt;&gt; But there the interaction is pretty &gt;&gt; But there the interaction is pretty &gt;&gt; But there the interaction is pretty tame. But I'm curious, what's been like tame. But I'm curious, what's been like tame. But I'm curious, what's been like one of the craziest experiences where one of the craziest experiences where one of the craziest experiences where you're like, "Oh, shoot." Like maybe it you're like, "Oh, shoot." Like maybe it you're like, "Oh, shoot." Like maybe it was maybe it was good or maybe it was was maybe it was good or maybe it was was maybe it was good or maybe it was just like I don't know where to put this just like I don't know where to put this just like I don't know where to put this in the C. Maybe it was like it felt in the C. Maybe it was like it felt in the C. Maybe it was like it felt demonic. I'm just curious like for you. demonic. I'm just curious like for you. demonic. I'm just curious like for you. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Burning Man, bro. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Burning Man, bro. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Burning Man, bro. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; There were so many videos I couldn't &gt;&gt; There were so many videos I couldn't &gt;&gt; There were so many videos I couldn't even post. I was like, what is going on? even post. I was like, what is going on? even post. I was like, what is going on? But dude, I had a guy come up to me at But dude, I had a guy come up to me at But dude, I had a guy come up to me at Burning Man and he offered me LSD. Burning Man and he offered me LSD. Burning Man and he offered me LSD. &gt;&gt; Oh wow. &gt;&gt; Oh wow. &gt;&gt; Oh wow. &gt;&gt; He said, hey, bro, do you want LSD? I &gt;&gt; He said, hey, bro, do you want LSD? I &gt;&gt; He said, hey, bro, do you want LSD? I said, "Absolutely not. I don't want said, "Absolutely not. I don't want said, "Absolutely not. I don't want LSD." And then he started making fun of LSD." And then he started making fun of LSD." And then he started making fun of me for not wanting LSD. Then his other me for not wanting LSD. Then his other me for not wanting LSD. Then his other bro comes over there and he's like, bro comes over there and he's like, bro comes over there and he's like, "What's going on?" He's like, "Bro, "What's going on?" He's like, "Bro, "What's going on?" He's like, "Bro, we're trying to invite him to the LSD we're trying to invite him to the LSD we're trying to invite him to the LSD trip. He won't do the LSD trip." "What? trip. He won't do the LSD trip." "What? trip. He won't do the LSD trip." "What? You won't do the LSD trip?" I'm like, You won't do the LSD trip?" I'm like, You won't do the LSD trip?" I'm like, "No, I don't want to do the LSD trip. "No, I don't want to do the LSD trip. "No, I don't want to do the LSD trip. I'm all about Jesus." And we start I'm all about Jesus." And we start I'm all about Jesus." And we start talking and and blah blah blah. And talking and and blah blah blah. And talking and and blah blah blah. And then, you know, people are running then, you know, people are running then, you know, people are running around naked and people are like doing around naked and people are like doing around naked and people are like doing crazy stuff. I'm like, "Bro, what is crazy stuff. I'm like, "Bro, what is crazy stuff. I'm like, "Bro, what is going on?" Definitely. Yeah. Definitely going on?" Definitely. Yeah. Definitely going on?" Definitely. Yeah. Definitely burning man, man. like getting offered burning man, man. like getting offered burning man, man. like getting offered LSD or like uh man so I got invited I am LSD or like uh man so I got invited I am LSD or like uh man so I got invited I am I even I don't even know what to say I I even I don't even know what to say I I even I don't even know what to say I could say could say could say &gt;&gt; I got invited to the orgy bus &gt;&gt; I got invited to the orgy bus &gt;&gt; I got invited to the orgy bus &gt;&gt; there was a what &gt;&gt; there was a what &gt;&gt; there was a what &gt;&gt; an orgy bus at Burning Man they have &gt;&gt; an orgy bus at Burning Man they have &gt;&gt; an orgy bus at Burning Man they have like tents rooms and buses and they'll like tents rooms and buses and they'll like tents rooms and buses and they'll have like a purple bus have like a purple bus have like a purple bus &gt;&gt; there's like multiple of them but but &gt;&gt; there's like multiple of them but but &gt;&gt; there's like multiple of them but but like when you drive through they had like when you drive through they had like when you drive through they had this purple bus and it was called the this purple bus and it was called the this purple bus and it was called the orgy bus and it had blacked out windows orgy bus and it had blacked out windows orgy bus and it had blacked out windows and they just had a whiteboard on the and they just had a whiteboard on the and they just had a whiteboard on the side of it with the days and the times side of it with the days and the times side of it with the days and the times that you can meet up there. And I got that you can meet up there. And I got that you can meet up there. And I got invited and I was I was just like, man, invited and I was I was just like, man, invited and I was I was just like, man, you are the perfect candidate for the you are the perfect candidate for the you are the perfect candidate for the love of God right now. And we shared the love of God right now. And we shared the love of God right now. And we shared the gospel with them. They wanted absolutely gospel with them. They wanted absolutely gospel with them. They wanted absolutely nothing to do with the gospel right nothing to do with the gospel right nothing to do with the gospel right there. But I I got invited to Wow. Today, my mind is blown. There's an orgy Today, my mind is blown. There's an orgy Today, my mind is blown. There's an orgy bus out there in bus out there in bus out there in &gt;&gt; Bro, I'm 21. I'm 21 and I got I'm like, &gt;&gt; Bro, I'm 21. I'm 21 and I got I'm like, &gt;&gt; Bro, I'm 21. I'm 21 and I got I'm like, what is go what is going on? There's so what is go what is going on? There's so what is go what is going on? There's so many times where like I want to laugh many times where like I want to laugh many times where like I want to laugh out loud when someone asks me to do out loud when someone asks me to do out loud when someone asks me to do something crazy and I just got to like something crazy and I just got to like something crazy and I just got to like hold it back. I got to be like, please hold it back. I got to be like, please hold it back. I got to be like, please just like help me. just like help me. just like help me. &gt;&gt; Help me for a second. &gt;&gt; Help me for a second. &gt;&gt; Help me for a second. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I feel you though. I feel you on &gt;&gt; Yeah, I feel you though. I feel you on &gt;&gt; Yeah, I feel you though. I feel you on that that people that they're just cuz that that people that they're just cuz that that people that they're just cuz in their mind they're like, "What? This in their mind they're like, "What? This in their mind they're like, "What? This is normal. Why wouldn't you want to be is normal. Why wouldn't you want to be is normal. Why wouldn't you want to be Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. But for me I'm like I didn't even &gt;&gt; Yeah. But for me I'm like I didn't even &gt;&gt; Yeah. But for me I'm like I didn't even know that existed. Like you know what know that existed. Like you know what know that existed. Like you know what I'm saying? Like you I'm saying? Like you I'm saying? Like you &gt;&gt; like what do you mean? This is Yeah. &gt;&gt; like what do you mean? This is Yeah. &gt;&gt; like what do you mean? This is Yeah. It's funny. I I did a uh a a hip-hop It's funny. I I did a uh a a hip-hop It's funny. I I did a uh a a hip-hop cipher years ago and you know this cipher years ago and you know this cipher years ago and you know this rapper French Montana, he was like, "Yo rapper French Montana, he was like, "Yo rapper French Montana, he was like, "Yo man, you killed that. I love that man. man, you killed that. I love that man. man, you killed that. I love that man. We were all about to go to the strip We were all about to go to the strip We were all about to go to the strip club. You want to roll with us?" And it club. You want to roll with us?" And it club. You want to roll with us?" And it was like for him it was like, "Yeah, was like for him it was like, "Yeah, was like for him it was like, "Yeah, it's just like I'm like I just wrapped it's just like I'm like I just wrapped it's just like I'm like I just wrapped about the Lord." But it's but whatever. about the Lord." But it's but whatever. about the Lord." But it's but whatever. It's clever. You know what I'm saying? It's clever. You know what I'm saying? It's clever. You know what I'm saying? &gt;&gt; Um that is wild though. &gt;&gt; Um that is wild though. &gt;&gt; Um that is wild though. &gt;&gt; Wild. &gt;&gt; Wild. &gt;&gt; Wild. &gt;&gt; Your your story wins today. I'm I'm I'm &gt;&gt; Your your story wins today. I'm I'm I'm &gt;&gt; Your your story wins today. I'm I'm I'm glad you're out here, bro. glad you're out here, bro. glad you're out here, bro. &gt;&gt; Like for real. I'm glad you're out here. &gt;&gt; Like for real. I'm glad you're out here. &gt;&gt; Like for real. I'm glad you're out here. And I and I want to second that. I just And I and I want to second that. I just And I and I want to second that. I just reiterate, I will be praying for you reiterate, I will be praying for you reiterate, I will be praying for you because because because &gt;&gt; we need you. Not just now. &gt;&gt; we need you. Not just now. &gt;&gt; we need you. Not just now. &gt;&gt; I mean, I I say that as a dad with Gen Z &gt;&gt; I mean, I I say that as a dad with Gen Z &gt;&gt; I mean, I I say that as a dad with Gen Z and Gen Alphas, but I I'm also just like and Gen Alphas, but I I'm also just like and Gen Alphas, but I I'm also just like as a believer, like we need people like as a believer, like we need people like as a believer, like we need people like you. So, man, stay in the fight. Stay you. So, man, stay in the fight. Stay you. So, man, stay in the fight. Stay doing what you're doing. We will be doing what you're doing. We will be doing what you're doing. We will be praying for you, bro. And uh we love it, praying for you, bro. And uh we love it, praying for you, bro. And uh we love it, bro. bro. bro. &gt;&gt; I appreciate you. I'm grateful for you. &gt;&gt; I appreciate you. I'm grateful for you. &gt;&gt; I appreciate you. I'm grateful for you. Love you, man. Love you, man. Love you, man. &gt;&gt; Love, brother. &gt;&gt; Love, brother. &gt;&gt; Love, brother. &gt;&gt; Let's go. &gt;&gt; Let's go. &gt;&gt; Let's go. &gt;&gt; What's going on, everybody? It's Lra and &gt;&gt; What's going on, everybody? It's Lra and &gt;&gt; What's going on, everybody? It's Lra and welcome to the workshop. The workshop is welcome to the workshop. The workshop is welcome to the workshop. The workshop is a place where you guys can understand my a place where you guys can understand my a place where you guys can understand my thought process. You guys are going to thought process. You guys are going to thought process. You guys are going to be able to unpack and dig into some of be able to unpack and dig into some of be able to unpack and dig into some of the old albums, some of the last several the old albums, some of the last several the old albums, some of the last several albums that I've done. And on top of albums that I've done. And on top of albums that I've done. And on top of that, it's a place where you're going to that, it's a place where you're going to that, it's a place where you're going to hear new music and some surprises. Make hear new music and some surprises. Make hear new music and some surprises. Make sure you stay tapped in. Let's build sure you stay tapped in. Let's build sure you stay tapped in. Let's build together. See you on the other side. together. See you on the other side. together. See you on the other side. [Music] This is the deep end with LCRA.