He could have said yes to that $37
million opportunity, got that bag, but
what would that bag have cost him?
>> That deal would have taken me away from
my purpose.
>> The love of money has to be crushed.
>> But how do you discern a good
opportunity from a God opportunity?
>> It can be an amazing opportunity, but if
God did not show it to me, it is a no.
>> If you are not focused, distractions
will begin to look like opportunities.
If you are a desperate person and you
are overly thirsty, you will walk
through every door that opens up and
walk off a cliff.
>> Before God trusted you guys with
influence, was one thing that he had to
remove from you guys before he will take
me to another level. I have to sacrifice
the former level.
>> You trust God with the outcome and you
don't try to control the outcomes.
>> One of my greatest fears is not failure.
It is being successful at something that
pulls me away from my purpose. This will
cost you the most because your talents
could put you in room that your
character will put you out of that room.
>> Who are you when there's no one to talk
to? Who are you to you? And if you only
recognize yourself by what you do, then
you're missing an opportunity to be
recognized by the very person that God
sees you as.
>> If God asked you right now to lay down
your business or your platform or your
influence, would you truly be able to do
it?
Make some noise for my good sis, my big
sis, Miss Jessica Lane McDonald.
Investfest investfest.
Listen, first off, when I say it is
truly an honor. It's so amazing just to
see everybody in this crowd because when
I think back to when Investfest first
started, Investfest started six years
ago and I remember being on the stage.
It was 4,000 people, but it was during
CO. So, everybody was 6 feet apart. And
just to see that it has grown from 4,000
people to over 31,000
people at this conference. Everybody
give yourselves a round of applause.
It truly is amazing. And out of those
six years, I have had the pleasure of
hosting and speaking for five years,
guys. Now, here's the thing. out of
those five years, this is going to be my
favorite year by far. And the reason
that I say that is because every year I
have spoken about investing. I've spoken
about entrepreneurship. I've spoken
about wealth. But how many people know
that your business plan is not your
business plan without God's plan? And
that there is no way that you will be
able to be successful without him
anointing what it is that he has for
you.
So, I am so excited to introduce
actually I need everybody to stand up
and give a round of applause to these
amazing transformational men.
First up, we got Pastor Tore Roberts of
the Potter's House. Next up, we got Tim
Timberlake from Celebration Church. And
last but not least, we got Philip
Anthony Mitchell from 2819.
First off, when you just look at these
three men, I think that their reputation
truly precedes them in every right, but
they are truly men of God. And I just
want to thank each of you for having
this conversation with me today. You
know, you guys have all been on my
podcast. And first off, when I look at
that and just to know that we have this
live audience here, I do not take this
moment for granted. Um especially
because in you guys own rights you guys
have built ministries that have impacted
millions of people and in order to do
that you have to have a certain level of
business acumen. That's a tremendous
amount of business acumen to have
something be sustained and elevated and
grow to that sense. Right? So today I
want to talk about kind of how business
acumen meets biblical wisdom. All right.
All right. So I'mma start here.
Everyone in this room wants to be
successful. Okay. Everyone in this room
wants to build wealth. But does God
actually promise financial abundance to
every believer? Or do you believe that
wealth is individually assigned
according to the purpose and
stewardship?
>> First, thank you for having us. It's a
blessing to be on the couch with you and
we appreciate you. Um
that's a very important question and the
question could be nuanced uh based on a
lot of the beliefs that we have in
society.
The scriptures are very clear that God
is not against people being financially
blessed. We see that in how God blessed
the life of Abraham. He blessed the life
of David. He blessed Solomon. So we
understand scripturally that God is not
against blessing people financially. But
what I also know from the scriptures is
that God is serious about stewardship
and that often times the blessings that
he bestow on our lives are consistent
with what he has called us to do. There
are people in this room right now who
may be believing to go to another level
financially, but God wants to see how
you steward what you have on the level
that you're on.
God is not going to trust you with a
wedding cake if he cannot trust you with
a donut.
And so before you start believing God
for wealth at greater levels, you want
to first believe God for wisdom to
steward what he has already placed in
your hands,
right? And that you also want to
understand that there's no need to be
jealous of people who God has blessed.
You want to be focused on your path and
your calling. I understand whatever God
has for you, he will give it to you for
what he's called you to do. Some of you
in this room, your calling demands
wealth. It demands you being financially
blessed, but I want to encourage you to
be a good steward on the level that
you're on and show God that you can
handle what you're believing for. So God
is not against people being financially
blessed, but God is moreful for
stewardship than just pouring out wealth
on every single person.
>> With wealth being stewardship though,
what kind of person does God have to
develop in order to steward more?
I would say uh growth always multiplies
what already exists.
>> Yeah.
>> So if chaos exists, it's going to
multiply that. If order exists, growth
will multiply that. And so one of the
things I believe God looks for in
multiplying the various things that he
desires to multiply in our life is
character and integrity.
And so one of the things that I would
encourage all of the uh investors,
entrepreneurs, business leaders,
business owners to steward well is
character and integrity. And so you're
not blessed by what you receive. You can
receive a business and lose a business.
You're blessed by what you retain. And
so when you retain character, when you
retain integrity, it allows your
business, it allows your entrepreneur
endeavor, it allows your dreams to have
sustainability and endurance. And so I
believe that's what God is looking for
whenever he wants to multiply, bless.
>> That's good. So before God trusted you
guys with influence, what's one thing
that he had to remove from you guys in
order to reach your level?
Um,
I think for me, um, you first of all,
you're asking some incredible questions.
Like we're like,
>> like, uh, and the answers are are just
brilliant. Let let me, let me go back a
little bit and then, and then I'll go
forward. Let me just be a little
disobedient just just for a second.
>> Um,
the scripture tells us to be fruitful
and to multiply.
And we can look at that in the context
of having children. And if we put that
in the box of having children, we will
miss the context in which it was given.
When when when God created creation,
he was exemplifying
a businessman's
disciplines. If you think about it,
he creates everything.
Then he puts the seed within itself and
he sits down. If you think about and the
reason why this is important is because
I believe that we are all called to
business in some way. So he creates
everything once then he sits down
because by putting the seed within
itself he has put perpetuity in it. So
he's like a CEO. He creates it. He
builds it, puts the seed in it and then
he tells us be fruitful and multiply. In
other words, he doesn't have to do
anything else. He has set up the ability
for it to continuously grow. So um and
then we're created in his image. That's
why he tells us to be fruitful and to
multiply. So I I I feel like we have
taken the righteous concept of
prosperity and it is a righteous con.
Prosperity for me is just taking what is
stewardship is taking what you have and
multiplying the potential of it. If we
go to Matthew chapter 25, he gives you
know the story. Five talents to the one
guy, two talents to the other guy, one
talent to one guy according watch this
to their own ability. Okay, so the each
individual had an ability to do
something and then the talent itself had
ability. Okay, so we're talking about
stewardship. So we're stewarding the
potential within and the potential of
whatever God gives me. So when God gives
me a check,
the second thing I do is tithe, the
first thing I do is recognize that God
wants me to multiply that.
>> Mhm.
>> Seriously. So because if I if I consume
it and I don't multiply it, it's gone.
>> Then I tithe. And I tithe because I want
it to be blessed. So again, I don't My
tithe is my first action. Mhm.
>> But my first thought is I need to
multiply that because it's a limited
resource. So back to Matthew 25, the
parable of the talents. The potential is
in me. God won't give me more than I can
handle and the potential is in the seed.
And this is why or the talent. And this
is why he gets upset with the guy who
just buries it. He gets upset with him
because dude, you I gave you the
ability. Deuteronomy 8:18, I've given
you the ability to create wealth. So
there's ability in you and there's
ability in what I gave you.
>> So I need you to work it. Now the
character issue is to not put your trust
in riches. The rich young I'm going to
say this. I'm you know you give a
preacher the microphone and and here we
are.
The rich young ruler
God was ultimately trying to multiply
him.
>> Yeah. If you study this Mark 10, the
rich young ruler, you know, he what
should I do to inherit eternal life? Am
I doing am I taking up too much time?
>> No, no, no, no. You're fine. But he
wanted to see the posture of his heart.
>> Let me and then and I'm going to shut up
and I may not have to say anything else
after this. The rich young ruler, he
goes to God says, "What must I do to
inherit eternal life?"
>> Jesus lists down the things. And Jesus
is a master. He lists down all the
things. He says, "Ah, I do these
things." He says, "One thing you lack.
Sell everything you have." right? And
follow me. Ultimately, he walks away
sad. The story plays out that Jesus was
going to, if he had done it, he was
going to multiply him. And he wasn't
going to multiply him simply in heaven.
He was going to multiply
100fold on earth what he had. So the
issue as it relates to development, your
second question is the issue was what
needs to be developed?
>> The love of money has to be crushed.
Mhm.
>> And the beautiful thing is if he would
have given up all that he had, that
would have represented the fact that he
didn't love the money and he also would
have recognized that he had the ability
to give it back. If I give up
everything, if God calls me to lay
everything down today,
>> I'm going to do it because I trust God,
but I also trust in his ability to
empower me to get it all back tomorrow.
>> Yeah. So the it's it's there's nothing
wrong with prosperity. There's nothing
wrong with having it as long as it
doesn't have you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yes. So I'm actually going
to present a question to the audience
and then I'm going to come back for to
you guys because you mentioned the um
the the ruler. So I want to ask the
audience if there is anybody that's in
here that if God asked you right now to
lay down your business or your platform
or your influence, would you truly be
able to do it? And I want you to check
the posture of your heart. And the
reason I'm saying this is because
last December um I got locked out of my
social media account. And my heart
dropped. And it sounds crazy, but my
heart literally dropped. And so I went
on a 7-month sabbatical from social
media to bl my flesh from it. So my
question to you guys is, how do you know
when you've crossed the line from
stewarding a gift to worshiping it?
That's a big
>> That's a power question.
>> Yeah.
Everyone in this room has been given
gifts
and talents by God. We know that
scripturally. It's in you. And everyone
in this room also has a heart.
>> Yeah.
>> The scripture says something about the
heart that the heart is wicked and the
heart is deceitful. And who can know it?
So what I'm going to say is my personal
opinion about gifts and worship of gifts
and what God had to do in my heart
before he gave me the platform I have
today. Okay. The Lord is not going to
take from you your gifts. The scripture
teaches that your gift has come without
repentance. You will have your gift. But
you could use your gift for your glory
or you could use your gift for his
glory. Right. What God is searching for
is the condition of your heart.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. I have the privilege today to lead
an 8 figure global organization.
I am a dude from the hood. I'm from
Queens, New York. I have no business
degree. Okay. I have no business degree.
I have no seminary degree. I got none of
that. But what I do have is a vigorous
pursuit of a pure heart.
>> Yeah.
>> And what I do have is a altar in
private. And what I have done is taken
everything that God has given me and
placed it on the altar. And I said to
God, these are the gifts that you have
given me, the talents you have given me,
the opportunity. I've laid it all on
this altar. And whatever the future of
my life is supposed to be, I trust you
with that. So I think you set yourself
up to flourish when you lay everything
God has given you on the altar and you
trust God with the outcome and you don't
try to control the outcomes. If you try
to control all the outcomes, you make
yourself God in your own life.
>> Come on.
>> Jessica and I had a powerful
conversation about this on her own
podcast. When she created her new
platform, I encourage her to lay that
platform on the altar and trust God with
the outcome. So, I want to say to every
single person in this room, above you is
all of the things God wants to pour into
your life, but what he's searching for
is the motivations of your heart. Okay?
You don't got to be jealous of anybody.
And you don't got to be covetous of
anybody. But what I would encourage you
today when you get home, take everything
that's in your heart, every desire for
every business, every idea, all your
entrepreneurial ventures, your
ministries, all of that, and lay it on
the altar. Sacrifice it to God and say,
"God, all of this belongs to you. I'm
fully committed to you, and I would
trust you with the outcomes, and
whatever you want that to be, it will
be." God can trust someone who has an
altar and their stuff is on the altar.
So, it's not about the things. It's more
so about the condition of your heart.
And I feel like a lot of people are
hindering your own blessings because you
have not placed your heart on the altar.
God is searching for people who are
trustworthy. Can he make you a conduit?
Because a lot of us are asking God for
things that will ruin us if he gave it
to you. So God wants to be able to trust
you with things, but before he trusts
you with that, he wants to see the
condition of your heart. Can you be
trusted with what you're praying for?
It's all about the condition of your
heart.
>> I want to add something to that. That's
so powerful. I agree 10,000%.
Um, and this is a testimony, too.
So God has taken me
to many, many, many levels. um many
levels and what has been consistent with
each level is before he will take me to
another level I have to sacrifice the
former level.
What what does that look like? Um,
the only way that you're going to know
that a thing doesn't have you is if you
lay that thing down for real. And you
don't pick it back up
until God tells you to pick it back up.
And for me, literally, the the the step
between levels was a sacrifice. So when
God is blessing me real real good and
and let me tell you something, God has a
number of ways to bless you. Financial
blessings, blessings of influence,
that's only one way. In fact, that's
kind of the cheapest blessing.
>> The greatest way for God to bless you is
for God to bless you spiritually. Mhm.
>> So some of the the trouble you might be
in or the pain you might be going
through or the difficulty you might be
experiencing if you see it right, if you
navigate it right is actually
cultivating, watch this, real worth on
the inside of you. And so but but the
point that I wanted to make is is every
time I have to level up, I always it
always requires that level. Are you
willing
to sacrifice the level that you're on?
That, you know, we can say all day, God
hears my heart. Prove it. You know, when
I was dating my wife,
we both were were single at the time,
and we both had made up our mind that we
was we weren't going to date anybody
unless God brought that person to us.
I remember after the first date with my
wife, March 17th, 2014,
I was, man, I don't know if y'all use
this term anymore, but a brother was
sprung. Anybody y'all, you know what it
mean to be sprung? The young folk don't
know about that. I was sprung.
And I got home. I got to the house. And
I said, "Man, this is either you, God,
or it's the devil. Cuz the heart is
deceitful above all things and
desperately wicked. who can know it. And
I had made this commitment that I wasn't
going to date unless it was you. And you
know what I did? I ended it before it
started.
That's the the only way that you're
truly going to know that God has your
heart is if you take that thing you
love, you want, you desire, you've built
your foundation on, and you put it
there. And you don't put it there for a
minute. You put it there and you let it
stay there until, watch this, until you
die to it.
And when you die to it real good, if God
gives it back to you, that's what you
get to keep. That's the test of the
heart.
>> Yes. So, listen. So, I'mma I'mma back up
a little bit because I understand what
we when we place our our gifts and our
callings at the altar, sometimes we can
look at it as a form of idolatry, right?
But Jesus tells us to deny ourselves.
Okay? But the world tells you to follow
your passion. All right. So, how do
entrepreneurs reconcile those two ideas
without you know confusing passion for
purpose?
>> I would say one of the greatest ways you
know if something has become an idol in
your life uh is if you think about the
gift more than you think about the
person that gave it to you.
On the flip side, if you think about the
gift more than you think about the
person the gift is for,
>> yeah,
>> thinking about your business, thinking
about your entrepreneurial endeavor,
thinking about your investment more than
you think about the person that will be
blessed by it is like singing your own
birthday song,
right? And so you have to think about
what is the gift for, who is the gift
for, who gave me the gift. And so if you
think about the idea more than you think
about the problem the idea is solving,
then you're completely missing the
point, right? So what is money? Money is
the reward for a problem solved. People
often tell me, "I need more money." And
I tell them, "No, you don't. You need
another idea." Because an idea, it
brings money when the idea solves a
problem. And so I would say one of the
greatest ways you know if something has
become an idol when you think about
what's in your hands more than you think
about what's in God's heart.
>> That's good.
So
as we become more and more successful
throughout life, right, more and more
doors open, it's it's inevitable. But
how do you discern a good opportunity
from a God opportunity?
I I would say for me and this is just a
personal conviction.
A good opportunity
it may come with happiness but a God
opportunity comes with joy.
>> And everything that God has for me, it
always comes with peace. Even if it's a
tough decision decision, I I know that
it it's God's uh decision for the
purpose of my life, not just the
passions of my life, because there's
some good things that I'm passionate
about, but then there's some God level
things that are aligned with my purpose.
And so, if it robs me of my peace, it's
too expensive.
>> I want to I want to also add that um
it's very difficult to discern between a
God opportunity
>> Yeah.
and a good opportunity if you're overly
thirsty.
>> Come on.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> If you are a desperate person
and you are overly thirsty, you will
walk through every door that opens up
and walk off a cliff.
>> Okay. One of the best ways to protect
yourself from discerning between a God
opportunity and a good opportunity is
first not being overly thirsty for
success and for money and platforms and
resources, but also to having a type of
intimacy with God where you're sensitive
to his voice. Okay? Not everything that
is good is God. And not every open door
is a door you should walk through. It
takes a strong person to say no to a
open door. It takes a strong person to
say no to an opportunity. Right? If you
are a thirsty person, the devil will
dangle carrots in front of you and lead
you down crazy roads, right? But when
you're not a thirsty person, the devil
can't do that to you. A door can open up
and if you're not thirsty, you don't
need to go through that. When you have
security in yourself and who God has
called you to be, then you don't feel
thirsty to walk through every single
door, right? And so, I want to encourage
some of you, don't be so thirsty. Focus
more on intimacy with God and focus more
on your calling. And don't be so thirsty
for open doors. Let God bless you with
the relationships you're supposed to
have, the open doors you're supposed to
have, so that you don't get confused
about the doors you need to walk through
and the doors you need to say no to. No
is a powerful word.
Let me repeat that to you. No is a
powerful word.
And you have to learn to say no. No will
keep you out of trouble. It will keep
you from bad business deals. It'll keep
you from being led astray. So if you're
overly thirsty, you will get led astray.
So don't be so thirsty. And have more
discernment. The more intimate you are
with God, the more discernment you have,
the more discernment you have. You'll
know what doors are yours and what doors
are not yours.
>> Completely agree.
>> I'm going to add something to that, too.
And it really piggybacks off of what uh
Pastor Phillip said.
>> No fire questions.
I think that every life ought to be
governed by a prophetic word. And what I
mean by a prophetic word is cultivating
a relationship with God in such a way
that God has already framed purpose for
you and and to write it down and and to
define it. Me personally, I know a good
idea from a God ideas because it is what
God told me. So I'm not seeing it for
the first time. I heard it in the spirit
and I wrote it down. And so the closer
our relationship with God is and asking
God real questions. God I yeah you know
I spent you know 11 years in corporate
America. I built I designed and built
data centers for some of the biggest
companies in the world. I know how to
make money. I know how to build things.
I know how to start businesses. I know
all that. So the ability is there. But I
am more than my ability. I'm a product
of prophecy.
>> Come on.
>> And so God,
what are you calling me to build in this
life? And give me specificity.
So when it shows up, I recognize it
already because I saw it in the spirit.
That's how I know. It can be an amazing
opportunity. It can be a 7 8 n figure
opportunity. But if God did not show it
to me, it is a no. And no is important.
And sometimes if it ain't a yes, it's a
no, right? So sometimes whether it's
business, whether it's dating or
whatever, and we're seeking God and God
doesn't give us a yes. And we assume
that that well, if God didn't give us a
no, it must be yes. No. No. I I am a
limited resource. My my purpose, I'm not
random. I didn't just show up here. God
said in his word, "Before I formed you
in your mother's womb, I knew you." Are
you tracking with me? So for me, I know
it's a God idea because it's what God
showed me already.
>> Listen, I want to add one more thing
that's very important. I want everybody
to listen to me very carefully. Okay?
Your convictions
will be a safe place for you to help you
determine what are God opportunities
from good opportunities. If you're a
person, you already have established
convictions. Your convictions already
determine all your nos. It determines
all your yeses. My brother right here,
uh, Tim Timberlake, he and I, we're
business partners. We have a podcast.
Not that long ago, he was approached
with a $37 million opportunity.
But he said no to that opportunity
because it didn't align with his core
convictions.
>> Come on.
>> So if you are a person of convictions,
you will be able to have the courage to
say no to things that does not align
with God's calling for your life. He
could have said yes to that $37 million
opportunity, got that bag, but what
would that bag have cost him? It would
have cost him his reputation. It would
have cost him his witness. he would have
had to compromise for that $37 million.
Now, some people may not care about
that, but we all are going to give an
account to God when we stand before him
on the day of judgment, right? Every
nobody's going to escape that, right?
So, it can't be just about a bag and it
can't be just about a platform. You got
to be governed by convictions that
protect you from saying yes to things
that will ultimately destroy you. So, if
you're going to be wise about your
business dealings, you first got to have
convictions that govern your yeses and
your nos. Does that make sense to you?
>> Okay.
>> Yo, that's crazy because my next
question was literally tell us about a
business decision that made absolutely
no sense on paper, but you knew God was
leading you to make it. And looking
back, what did that decision teach you
about trusting God's wisdom over
conventional business wisdom? So clearly
the Holy Spirit already in the role
right here.
>> Come on.
So, so to kind of um add a layer to what
my brother Phil was saying, uh that deal
was presented to me. That deal would
have taken me away from my purpose. Now,
it was a part of my passion.
And if you're not careful, you'll allow
your passion to determine how well you
steward your purpose. and it can't go in
that direction. So for me, my
conviction, one of my greatest fears is
not failure. It is being successful at
something that pulls me away from my
purpose. Because if it pulls me away
from my purpose, it's distracting me
from the thing God called me to do.
>> Yes.
>> And so I know the difference between a
good opportunity and a God opportunity
by if it aligns with the purpose that
God has placed in front of me. And so
I'm an investor. It aligns with my
purpose. Me and Phil are businessmen. It
aligns with my purpose. I'm an author.
It aligns with my purpose. We're both TV
and media personalities. It aligns with
my purpose. But what is the purpose? Our
purpose is to continue to point people
with our lives back to the feet of Jesus
Christ. And if what we do does not align
with purpose, then it is distracting us
from the very purpose that God has
placed us here for. And so one of the
things I encourage you to ask yourself
is, is this a good opportunity that's
taking my attention away from my purpose
or does it align with my purpose? Here's
the danger. Hear me. Listen to me. If
you are not focused, distractions will
begin to look like opportunities.
>> Let me say it again. If you're not
focused, distractions will begin to look
like opportunities. And you'll fly at
every opportunity that comes across your
table, that comes across your phone,
when in fact, God has called you for one
purpose. And he will align you with that
purpose when you trust in him.
>> I got to pull a audible real quick. I'm
about to go off script, but it's in my
spirit to ask this question because
sometimes I wonder if people really know
what this truly means. I want y'all to
break down intimacy with God. And it's
the most simple question, right? And
people be like, "Girl, what? Like, why
would you ask them that?" But the reason
I asked that is because it's the most
powerful part. It's literally the
business plan right there. Like, we
can't do nothing without the creator
that gives us everything that we have in
the first place. So, I want y'all to
break down intimacy with God because
it's literally not just going to church
every Sunday. It's not just saying,
"Lord, thank you for this food we're
about to receive for the nerves inside
our body." That is not knowing God. And
that knowingness that you talk about and
that intimacy with God that you talk
about and that stay focused that you
talk about is deeper than that.
>> I think the answer to this question will
be slightly subjective because our
experiences are different. So I I won't
make this long. Um I may be known for my
preaching but my preaching is not the
strongest part of my ministry. The
strongest part of my ministry is what
people don't see is my prayer life. So
when I think about intimacy with God, it
is it is for me it is a deep intimate
personal relationship I have with the
Lord that's happening in private. Uh he
is my first thought in the morning. I
think about him throughout the day. It
is the ringing out my heart from sin and
the things that I know that are evil and
wicked. It is me having honest
conversations with him that are not
sanitized
uh by theology. Uh it is me being honest
with him about the things that I'm
feeling, the things that I'm going
through and also my desires. And it is a
thing that protects me from making bad
decisions and from leading me astray.
And so intimacy looks different for
everybody. It's not a one-sizefits-all.
>> Yeah.
>> I think it has to be tailored for your
personality. One person goes into the
prayer room, the other person takes a
walk in the park, right? But intimacy
with God, it is the most fulfilling
thing you will ever have in his life. I
know a lot of millionaires who are
unfulfilled.
>> I know a lot of people who are
successful in the world, but they are
unfulfilled.
>> And I'm telling everybody in this room,
every multi-millionaire,
every future billionaire, every
entrepreneur, you've heard it from me.
There is nothing that will satisfy you
more in this life than a deep intimate
personal relationship with Jesus that is
happening in private.
Um yeah, for for for me
um it's rooted in
knowing God and knowing God is rooted in
the fact that God knows me. And I keep
coming back to that Jeremiah chapter 1
where God says to Jeremiah as he's
calling him before I formed you in the
belly in your mother's womb. I knew you.
I ordained you. I set you apart. I made
you unique and distinct. I I made you
into something. For me, that
consciousness
tells me that God knows me better than I
know me.
And so intimacy with God, one is that he
knows me. Two is that he loves me. He
loves me in spite of me,
which allows me to worship. What is
worship? Is worship singing a song? Is
worship lifting your hands? Those are
expressions or things that you might do
in the context of worship. But worship
for me at the end of the day is absolute
intimacy because it is opening up the
deepest part of yourself to God. It it's
the closest thing. I'm going to probably
get in trouble when I say this, but
it's it's truly is intimacy. If you
think about intimacy, intimacy
necessitates an opening up,
a surrender,
which allows for I'm going to use this
term, many kids in here. There's a
degree of penetration.
Eye open,
the Lord comes in. Watch this. And we
become one. And we become one. for me
because I know how he feels about me. I
can open up to him. I can show him
everything
and I can say, "God, there are things in
me that I don't even know, but I know
you can see and I trust your holiness."
The Bible says, "Worship the Lord in the
beauty of holiness." And holiness has
for me a number of of con a number of
connotations. For me, holiness is God's
wholeness. So, if I open up to God all
of my brokenness, if I yield to God my
brokenness, if I yield my brokenness to
his wholeness, what's going to happen?
I'm going to get whole. I'm going to be
one with God. So for me, intimacy with
God is surrendering to a God that I know
loves me, is for me, knows me, has my
back, and I'm changed in that encounter.
I I I ain't going to lie. I'm a little
greedy, Lord. I'm I'm opening up to you,
but I'm one of the reasons why I'm
opening up to you is because I want you
to change me. When I my my intimacy, you
ever been with somebody, you've seen a
couple, they've been together for 10,
15, 20 years, and what begins to happen?
and they start looking like each other
because they've been intimate with each
other for so long. So for me, intimacy
is worship based on the fact that I know
God loves me. I know God knows me. And
if I get my relationship with him right,
my intimate worship relationship right,
then I'm going to be transformed into
that same image.
>> Yeah. The reason I asked that question
is because it's a lot of people, like
you said, it's a lot of millionaires. I
know a lot of millionaires,
multi-millionaires with no peace.
>> So that's why I asked. But listen, so
the Apostle Paul wrote that I have
learned in whatever state I'm in to be
content.
Yeah. And he said this in both spaces of
abundance and lack. So my question to
you guys is because he said the word
learned, what has God had to teach you
that you could have never learned at the
top? And why has that become one of the
most greatest gifts you now carry?
>> One of the greatest things I could have
ever learned is I am not what I do.
>> And there's a difference between me and
my gift. People will notice you for your
gift, right? And so I I'll leave you
with this question.
You are a son and a daughter to your
parents. If you are a parent, you are a
mother and father to your kids. You're a
brother, sister to your siblings. you
are an employer to uh the business that
you work for or an employee. Uh but who
are you to you,
right? Who are you to you? Who are you
when you're alone by yourself? Who are
you when there's no one to talk to? Who
are you to you? And if you only
recognize yourself by what you do, then
you're missing an opportunity to be
recognized by the very person that God
sees you as, and that's a son and a
daughter. And so for me, I have to see
myself as a son first and then separate
my gift from me, separate what I do from
me and understand there's more value to
me than just what I have my hands doing.
>> What have I learned
that I could not have learned on the
top? Wow.
Um,
I think you learn
I think you learn on the bottom what the
top is for.
Uh, I think you learn on the bottom that
the top is overrated.
Um,
I'm just thinking about um
the brilliance of God to not bless you
too quick. M
>> the the brilliant strategy of God
because all of us have had this
experience. We realize that very thing
we prayed for if we would have got it
in the pace and the rhythm that we felt
like we were ready for it. I can't think
of one
blessing, opportunity,
breakthrough,
miracle, whatever you want to call it,
that I got after what I perceived was a
delayed season that God didn't correct
me and realize that it was right on
time. Um, I've learned to trust. I've
learned to to if it if it takes long,
it's supposed to. And I've learned to
trust him in in that waiting season
because God is a brilliant God. He knows
the the end from the beginning. And so I
I've gotten really good at waiting and
content in the waiting. I'm learning to
enjoy
the view.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's how I'd answer that. So,
Pastor Phil, I've actually, just to
piggy back off of what he said, um I've
actually heard you say that we live in a
generation that literally wants to skip
the process.
So, I have a question. What parts of the
process are people trying to skip today
and what does it ultimately cost them?
>> What parts of the process are people
trying to skip today and what does it
ultimately cost them?
I think the biggest part of the process
that people try to skip today is
character development.
>> Yeah.
>> Because God,
it will be beautiful if God would just
hit you with a wand and you will be the
person you need to be tomorrow morning.
>> Yeah.
>> But unfortunately, he doesn't do that.
What God does, he uses the school of
life, pain, hardships, trials, and
tribulations to shape you into the
person he wants you to be. And I think
in this generation what people try to
skip the most is character development.
This will cost you the most because your
talents could put you in room that your
character will put you out of that room.
And your gifts can put you on a
mountaintop but your character will take
you off that mountaintop. Your gifts
will give you relationships but your
character will ruin that relationship.
So I personally think in my opinion one
of the most important things that in the
process that people should not skip is
the character development which God does
to give you the fortitude you need to
trust you with the things you believe in
him for. That way you will not lose them
when they come or you will not lose
yourself when they come.
>> Yeah. That's good. All right. So you
guys have books. You guys have books. I
know that I interviewed you book knowing
I got one book coming out
>> is coming out. Look, look, look.
Everybody give a round of applause for
Contend coming out in October. Um, but
you guys all are authors, okay? I know
that I've interviewed you on your book,
Knowing, but um, what is one principle
from one of your books, okay, that every
entrepreneur can carry forth as they
leave here?
>> I would say uh, slowly is the fastest
way to get to where God desires for you
to be. And I would also say the top of
one mountain is the bottom of another.
Keep climbing.
>> Yeah. I think uh this is from uh my
third book, Balance. Uh and it was about
losing u I think every entrepreneur
first of all you're not going to be a
successful consistently successful
entrepreneur unless you lose a lot.
You're not going to be a successful
investor unless you particularly if
you're investing in startups unless you
lose a lot. So the the the key is and
I'll talk about this in balance. Not
making losing an identity. Not making
failure an identity. Failure is an is an
event. Losing is an event. To be a
failure
is an identity. And so, so I think that
if the faster you can lick your wounds,
move on, and start again, the faster the
track you'll be on for your next hit.
>> That was good.
That was good. Last but not least, Mr.
Contend.
>> One principle from my book.
God will not create for you a life that
makes him unnecessary.
God will not create for you a life.
Thank you.
>> That makes him unnecessary.
Before he's called you to anything else,
he's called you to himself. Come on.
>> And he wants us all to contend earnestly
for the faith that's come down to us in
blood. That's it.
>> All right, everybody give a round of
applause to these three men. These three
brilliant men.
