Well, a few years ago, you went through
some tough times and how did you walk
through it?

>> Speaker: I experienced a crisis of faith. I
experienced some serious depression. But
how can I say these things in a way that
they would understand it?

>> Speaker: You can't take your world and put God in
that box and still call him God. Okay.

>> Speaker: I was so concerned with trying to
convince people to see something
different. It was taking its toll on me
and I didn't know I signed up for this.

>> Speaker: Here we go.

>> Speaker: Well, I have the joy, the privilege, the
excitement, the exuberance of welcoming
to our Unbound podcast
the famous and not infamous, the famous
Larae.

>> Speaker: Hey, welcome. We're so glad to have you.

>> Speaker: I'm honored. like it's a massive honor
to be here with you.

>> Speaker: Well, you know, we've uh shared some
time over the years together and um in
fact, I was just asking you about your
wife and about the connection that you
kind of had with her and Oak Cliff and
how that worked. Why don't you just
summarize that for me?

>> Speaker: Yeah, long story short, um my wife was
um going to Oakliff Bible Fellowship uh
before we met. She grew up right around
the corner from the church and uh we met
at the University of North Texas and
um her and a group of her friends would
drive from Denton all the way down here
on the sun on Sundays and once we got
together I I tagged along with them and
was blessed.

>> Speaker: So,

>> Speaker: and you've been married how many years?

>> Speaker: We will be 20 years next month.

>> Speaker: Come on now.

>> Speaker: Not next month. February. Let me Yeah.
Whenever.

>> Speaker: Okay. All right. So, you got an
anniversary in February

>> Speaker: for coming up.

>> Speaker: Okay. And kids?

>> Speaker: Three kids. Uh David uh 17, Amaya 16,
and Landon 13.

>> Speaker: Okay. Okay.

>> Speaker: Yeah.

>> Speaker: Well, you are, I guess the word would be
iconic when it comes to uh Christian hip
hop.

>> Speaker: Sure.

>> Speaker: And uh God has used you and allowed you
to go on this journey as you've done
this. Now, you've been doing this for
how long?

>> Speaker: Uh 20 years now.

>> Speaker: 20 years. Okay. 20 years. So,

>> Speaker: what what drives you? What drives you
about taking this creative genre and uh
and keeping it before people in terms of
your purpose?

>> Speaker: That's a great question. I think um you
know, early on learning that God uses
broken things to paint a a picture of
his glory and his his his goodness. I
think hip-hop was this broken thing. My
life growing up without, you know,
growing up in a broken home was this
broken thing. And uh I was fascinated at
at how God could use something like
this. And so for me, I get excited to
take something that has historically
been seen as a as broken and then
bringing it to to the healing aspect of
of God's work to disenfranchised
communities, to young people, to old
people, everybody. Um, and I think
that's the inspiration is just seeing
people come alive hearing a reflection
of God in the music.

>> Speaker: Well, that's interesting. Uh, you know,
when you track track through the Bible,

>> Speaker: brokenness is everywhere. It's

>> Speaker: I I'm trying to think of a unbroken
leader that God used
or that that somebody who was broken who
he put back together and then used them

>> Speaker: because built in that is hope. That
means brokenness is not a permanent
doesn't have to be a permanent malady.
It can be something that can be
transformed. So your own brokenness and
the brokenness you saw around you

>> Speaker: became an impetus

>> Speaker: for what you do. And hip hop uh was sure
broken
you know. Absolutely.

>> Speaker: So so you you're kind of fulfilling in a
sense a calling coming and tied to your
experience.

>> Speaker: Absolutely.

>> Speaker: So we've shared some time along the way.
Is there anything that stands out in
terms of your time at O'liff, your time
with me that

>> Speaker: that God particularly zeroed in on?

>> Speaker: Is this a joke?

>> Speaker: No.

>> Speaker: Do we have time?

>> Speaker: I'm trying to be serious. Pick one.

>> Speaker: Oh my goodness. I here the, you know,
for me being discipled by a group of
young men at North Texas who were all
simultaneously going to Dallas
Theological Seminary.
um they were heavily influenced by you
know yourself and of course Charles
Swindoll and and and others and um and
so
you know I didn't grow up in church uh
my grandmother was the only Christian
that I really had any access to and so
to hear the voice of an authoritative
man who I felt like oh this this is I
haven't heard this before but then not
just yelling at me from the pull pit
But breaking down things in a in a a
very palatable but also intellectual way
was foreign to me. And so it you know a
lot of the your books um a lot of your
sermons became a a blueprint for for
from for people like myself. I I didn't
know what I would look like as a a grown
man who loves the Lord and how I would
walk and navigate this. I got to see
you, you know, talk about being a
father, being a husband, being a leader,
and all these particular things. So, I I
don't know even where I would begin. Um,
and then the people that you've invested
in have also been like brothers to me,
like Dr. Eric Mason and whatnot. And so,
uh, yeah, there's so many to choose
from, but I would say hands down, I
think the biggest piece of it for me was
contextualizing
truth in a in a way that I could receive
it and then challenging me to to think
on on truth as well.

>> Speaker: Well, I like that word contextualizing.
One of the distinctions I like to make
is the difference between biblical
theology and systematic theology. In
systematic theology, you structure
everything and you take what the Bible
says comprehensively and organize it
into a a formula that a person can see
see the structure of what the Bible says
on a subject. But biblical theology is
when you look at a book, an author, a
time and an audience in the context in
which it was written. You got

>> Speaker: 1500 years, 40 different authors spread
out throughout the text. It's not
systematized. You have to do that. it's
contextualized when the Bible was
written.

>> Speaker: So, taking that contextualization and
showing that this book is relevant to
people where they live and not just
theological
uh nuances that are unrelated to the
nitty-gritty realities in life. M

>> Speaker: and when I think of you and hiphop and
your
successful uh uh integrating that genre
into culture. So, let's talk about
hip-hop and culture cuz

>> Speaker: hip-hop uh became a cultural phenomenon
and and uh

>> Speaker: you um we'll call it sanctified,
Christianized, you know, uh talk about
the dynamics just like we try to do with
the Bible being contextualized that you
took hiphop and try to contextualize the
Bible into that genre in a contemporary
culture.

>> Speaker: Yeah, that's a great um you know, great
thought. Hip-hop, for those who who
don't know, is this art form birthed in
the 70s, um, early 70s in in the Bronx,
New York. A bunch of kind of
disenfranchised kids, you know, were
were were break dancing and rapping and
doing all these things. And as it
matured, it it grew in science and
social awareness, but not spirituality.
And there was an it was like an
abandonment. It was kind of like, well,
we don't want our parents' spiritual
uh authority on us. We want to break
free from these these shackles. And in
in departing from spiritual wisdom, you
know, it it became more more and more
degenerate as time went on. And um and
this is the culture that I was raised
in, the culture that that informed my
worldview and shaped me. And so once I
met Jesus, I think I was like, "Whoa,
this flies against, you know, as I grew
in the faith, I said,"Oh, what Jesus is
teaching flies in the face of so many
things that this this culture has been
feeding me, but how can I say these
things in a way that they would
understand it? I, you know, so it's kind
of like what do I use?" And uh you know,
as a master of analogies yourself,
you know, I found myself just trying to
find analogies and and and songs and and
putting pieces of puzzles together. And
just to see the light bulbs go on for
people was amazing to me. and is to be
able to do a concert and you know I
probably stolen about 25 of your
analogies over the course of my you

>> Speaker: uh over over time but but I think you
know that has transformed a lot of
people's way of thinking and um and I've
seen the fruit of it to where now you
have these young artists and people
influenced by hip-hop who are saying to
themselves well hip-hop culture
historically said this but God says this
so how do we take that and infuse that
into where we are now and and that's
been the the thought process moving
forward. um resistance. I mean there
hip- hop hiphop has been looked at this

>> Speaker: degenerate carnal thing and you have as
I said sanctified it. What kind of
resistance have you faced and how have
you sought to deal with that reality?
It's a good question over I mean early
on in the beginning stages I remember um
you know people saying how is this of
God you know what and I and I would ask
them well what makes it not of God you
know cuz I'm curious like what what is
what makes it not of God and they say
well you know hip-hop only talks about
killing and drug dealing and so on and
so forth and I said so what if we change
what it talks about um a lot of our
contemporary gospel songs came from
blues
and blues was not a sanctified art form.
And so I said, "Well, what what's
redeemable about it?" And I would get a
lot of push back early on. Um some of it
was the way we carried ourselves and and
you know, it took time to show people
that yes, our dress is different, our
our look is different. And what I would
often have to show people is like, well,
just think about young David going up to
King Saul and saying, "Hey, this armor
doesn't quite fit me."

>> Speaker: But I promise you, if you let me wear
what I what I have and give me my sling
and my

>> Speaker: No, you didn't go there. No, you didn't
go there. Hey, you working it, boy. You
working it.

>> Speaker: Hey, just just let me use what I know. I
I promise you I'll get the job done. I
promise I'll get out here and still slay
some giants. and uh and that's that's
been kind of the way we've had to I've
had to navigate against some of the
early resistance that I dealt with uh on
on the journey.

>> Speaker: So
music in general because you you you you
alluded to that not only with hip-hop
but other ways the blues and how that
intersect with the gospel and all of
that.

>> Speaker: And by the way you said it started in
Brooklyn so it didn't start in Compton.

>> Speaker: Didn't start in

>> Speaker: Okay.
Oh my goodness. you know, I got to go to
Compton, you know, but uh uh but this
this thing of music
changing people's thinking as a

>> Speaker: as a communicative device,

>> Speaker: you know, I remember when

>> Speaker: my son Jonathan first heard Kirk
Franklin and he was at Baylor University
and and and
the effect

>> Speaker: that that had on him. you know, you
could you could you know, you can do all
that, get your get your thing going, but
at the same time,

>> Speaker: uh, have a Christian message tied to the
relevancy of it.

>> Speaker: How do you look at music as a genre, as
a means

>> Speaker: of communicating truth and changing and
and do you even have some scenarios
where God has used it

>> Speaker: to affect decision making in people's
lives?

>> Speaker: Yeah. Yeah. Um,
you know, I'm not an expert in etmology
or words, but
muse means to think. And so I would hope
that people would see music as as a a
soundsscape that you're think you're
meditating on what's being heard, right?
And uh and I and and and so for me, I
always wanted to look at music as an
opportunity to be a form of expression
of creative expression. What is it
saying? Well, it's saying something
about the the the person who's
articulating it. Well, what's inside of
that person is going to be expressed in
the music. And if you're not spending
time with the Lord, then that's not
going to come out in your music. And and
I think what I've experienced is
people spending time with the music and
saying, "Oh, this isn't in me." What
he's saying, I I don't I don't
recognize, but I need to recognize this.
Right? I remember it was a song, you
know, I woke up in the dead of the night
and I just it was like the spirit of God
was like, "Hey, get up and write." And I
just started writing a song and it was
it was my testimony and I was like, how
do I articulate what Ephesians says?
Ephesians says is by grace you're saved
and not of yourselves, you know, lest
anyone should boast. So I was like, how
do I articulate this? And I start
writing a song called Take Me as I am.
And I'm writing it and I'm saying, you
know, I'm I'm I'm going through my
story. 5:46 in the morning, I'm tossing
and turning, chest burning, and sermons
in my head keep reoccurring. And by the
end of the song, I'm articulating that I
I thought that I had to earn God's love,
but then I I realized he would take me
as I am. I smell like smoke. My whole
life's full of sin cuz it's all I know.
And then I I articulate that God reached
down and grabbed me in the midst of
where I was at. And I put this song out
just prompted like, "All right, let's
release the song." Countless people have
said, "That's me. That's me. That's me.
I I felt like I had to earn it. I don't
have to earn it." And people came to
know the Lord from listening to a song.
And so I I think it was in me though.
Had I not been in my studying Ephesians
and sitting time under the pastor and
listening that wouldn't have came out in
that way.

>> Speaker: So

>> Speaker: So as you you know as you deal with some
of these cultural issues, I I remember
there was this season where there was
this racial burden on you. talk about
that particular

>> Speaker: struggle that you went through in that
season and and how you tried to work
with that.

>> Speaker: Take a sip.

>> Speaker: Okay, take a sip

>> Speaker: cuz I'mma take you somewhere with this
one boy.

>> Speaker: Um
I remember like it was yesterday. I
think it was 201 maybe it was 2012 13.
um Trayvon Martin uh had been had been
killed and I was burdened because I
could relate to a young Trayvon, right?
I could just I could see him. I have
cousins like a Trayvon and I thought,
man, that's tragic. Now,
I went to social media, Facebook, and I
just said, man, this is a tragic event
that is taking place. And for me, it
wasn't a social, it wasn't about a a a
political issue, right? It was a
biblical issue for me. It was the life
of a young boy has been taken and this
burdens me. Somebody I can relate to.

>> Speaker: I got a lot of push back for for just
articulating that. And I was like,
that's strange. Like why why would
people be offended at this that I was
trying to show love to this guy. And
then uh I said maybe I said it wrong.
Let me make a video. So I make a video
about it. And people were like stop
being political. You're being political.
And I was like what what do you mean I'm
being political? So then I I felt
burdened. I was like, "This is an
epidemic in my community. Like I see
this type of thing happen all the time.
How do I articulate this?" And
you know, I think for a season,
um, I was I was so concerned with trying
to convince people to see something
different that I didn't realize, man, I
it was taking its toll on me, right?
It's taking its toll on me. And um, and
in that pain and that suffering, um, I
just found myself disenfranchised. I
couldn't believe that so many believers
were like fickle and uh racially
divisive and politicized and every and I
was like what is I didn't I didn't not I
didn't know I signed up for this. So it
took me to a very dark place and it was
a dark season in my life. I can tell you
more about that but that I mean that's
the introduction to a very dark season
for me that I couldn't reconcile. I
didn't understand why we saw things
differently. I didn't understand there
there were racial divides in the church
and political divides in the church and
it it just threw me for a entire loop.

>> Speaker: So what resolved that for you? What what
helped you get through that?

>> Speaker: Okay. Uh so I got to a place where I
realized that much of what I thought
was
in the context of the American church,
right? Like I said, I'm I'm thinking the
church is just what I see in America.
And I said, "Well, this is church. I
don't like it." You know, like I've been
to restaurants before and I didn't like
the food. And I said, "I'm never going
back to that restaurant again." But the
catch was I didn't stop eating that type
of food. So maybe that wasn't a good
restaurant, but that doesn't mean I
don't like steak anymore. I still like
steak. But I had thrown steak out. And
essentially, I said, "I'm done with this
Christian thing. These people are
crazy." And um
and ironically, I went on a trip with my
wife to Egypt and I I was I wasn't
there. I was just kind of and I went to
a um one of these um places where they
talked about the the pharaohs, the
tombs. So I go to one of the tombs

>> Speaker: and our guide is this brilliant
brilliant uh archaeologist,
anthropologist, like brilliant, not a
Christian. And our guy says, "Oh, this
is a a pharaoh that let all the people
go." And I was like, "Like like in the
Bible?" And the archaeologist or the guy
says, "I don't know the Bible. I've
never read the Bible. I don't know
anything about the Bible. I just know
there's a Pharaoh historically that let
all of the slaves go." And I was like,
"This is real." I said, "Oh man, okay,
God. Maybe I shouldn't throw the whole
baby away. Let me let me come back." I
go into this little church. It was a
museum. But I started seeing scholars
from Egypt and Ethiopia. And I said,
"Oh, this is a global faith. This isn't
an American faith. This is the world."
And I and I think at that time God said,
"You haven't heard anything about
American politics here, have you?" I
said, "I haven't." Because it does not
consume everything I care about. I care
about the the world and you're niched
down in this little bubble here. And I
think that that challenged me to say,
wait, what's bigger, the kingdom or the
empire?

>> Speaker: Well, you you just used one of my
favorite words, uh, kingdom. Uh, this
this all-encompassing rule of God,

>> Speaker: that that touches every area of life.
And when we get in our own niche and all
we see is this and we don't see the
bigger picture of God,

>> Speaker: then that small piece can control us

>> Speaker: when we've given it a weight. It was
never designed to have.

>> Speaker: Wow.

>> Speaker: Because God is so much bigger than my
narrow world that I'm exposed to. and
being willing to expose yourself to much
more which that event allowed you to see

>> Speaker: that uh you can't you can't you can't
take your world and put God in that box

>> Speaker: and still call him God. Okay. So so this
king and his kingdom is is a dynamic
thing. So I'm I'm glad that God

>> Speaker: let you see the problem and then let you
see the cure from from what you went
through. So that's that's that's pretty
good. So as you as you now look at
moving forward,

>> Speaker: you know, I typically think about
hip-hop artists as, you know, 20 25.
Okay, that's that's 20 years ago. I
mean, okay. So, but it still seems to
have a relevance today

>> Speaker: that transcends age and stage. How do
you see it formulating as you see it,
you know, metriculate through time?
Yeah, I I think that we all age, we all
get older, we all have to, you know,

>> Speaker: Thanks a lot, but go ahead.

>> Speaker: Well, I mean, you have more experience
with this than I do, so I'm just I just,
you know, put it out there. But but I
think that,
you know, hiphop is like this this
subculture in America that was a melting
pot of different ethnicities and races.
And it's kind of like, well, what does
it mature into? What does it look like
to be the 35 year old person within
hiphop, the 45 year old person? And as
we've gotten to see people age, you
know, it's only 50 something years old
now, right? But as we've gotten to see
people age and look at, oh well, this is
what LL CoolJ from 18 to 50some looks
like now.
It's painted a little bit of a picture
for us in terms of like what do we
mature into and how do we grow and and
and disciplehip is is not
is not a suggestion. It it's an it's
it's part of the the call of us as
Christians. So, how do we reinvest in
the next generation and and help them to
not go some of the take some of the
errors that we've taken? So, so it's
been a lot of learning how to
embrace my authentic self, but then
figure out, okay, now where do I go from
here?

>> Speaker: So, let's institutionalize the
conversation because

>> Speaker: you have pastors and churches and
congregants

>> Speaker: who are not ready.

>> Speaker: Yeah.
to metriculate to that degree.

>> Speaker: But if they're going to reach the next
generation, have to

>> Speaker: uh and to not be stuck in your own
generational mode.

>> Speaker: That's good.

>> Speaker: If you're going to minister relevantly,

>> Speaker: that's good.

>> Speaker: To the future and not be stuck in the
present or worse, the past,

>> Speaker: right? So, how can you take the gifting
and the genre and help pastors who at
least are semiopen

>> Speaker: to want to be relevant

>> Speaker: to integrate in a way that doesn't cause
them to lose the folks who are paying
the bills,

>> Speaker: but at the same time bring in the folks
who need to hear the message of the
gospel in a way that they can understand
it and interpret it and relate to it.
That's that's really good.

>> Speaker: So, you got a thousand pastors out there
who are scared to death. You are the you
are the presenter, right?

>> Speaker: Talk to them.

>> Speaker: Well, what I would say is that
the gospel of Jesus, the truth of the
scriptures is always relevant, right?
It's always going to be relevant. Um,
however, the means by which you're
delivering it can grow irrelevant,
right? So
if I come into your congregation and I
start speaking old English as if I was
from the the 1600s,
that way of communicating has has become
irrelevant. It it it's not working. If
you were to take a pastor and say, "Hey,
your your your congregation is growing
and there's some people who are shut in
and and and and distant and in
hospitals, they can't hear this message.
What would you do?" you would have to
find a relevant means of getting that to
them. And the relevant means may be a a
visual audio aspect of your ministry so
you can connect to them. So we're always
adding things to help broaden the reach.
We use technology now. Microphones were
not a part of the early church. We got
microphones now. We're finding relevant
ways of communicating the same truth to
different generations and iterations of
people. And I think if I'm a a pastor or
a leader within a church, I've got to
realize that I will lose a generation of
people, if I'm not figuring out how they
are communicating to one another. How,
you know, you you I would say look for
the bridge between generation, the
generational bridge. And that's kind of
what I've had to be in some
circumstances is who's the generational
bridge? I still want to hold on to these
these uh values and views, but I want to
articulate it in a way that this group
of people can understand. And it doesn't
mean that your church is going to turn
into just a the hip-hop church,

>> Speaker: right?

>> Speaker: It just means that it is now inclusive
of those who would otherwise feel like,
well, that's a old church. I can't go to
that church, right? That's my grandma's
church. And we see a lot of churches who
quote unquote die

>> Speaker: because the the same 100 people that
they started with has grown to be 85 and
that's all that's left. And so there's
no thought process of passing the baton
and how to keep that relevancy going.

>> Speaker: You I love the word that you use

>> Speaker: bridge when when Jesus met uh in John 4
the Samaritan woman where the cultures
were totally different. M

>> Speaker: in fact she said how is it that you
being a Jew asked me for a Samaritan for
a drink cuz the Jews have no dealings
with Samar that's not how we roll up in
here up in here. Now I'm not a hip-hop
GUY BUT I'M JUST TRYING TO DO a little
something something there. Uh uh but but
he met her at Jacob's well. And the
thing about it is

>> Speaker: Jacob was the father of the Jews and the
Samaritans. So he met her at a place of
agreement

>> Speaker: where we could relate to each other on
something we do agree on to take you
further than you would have been
otherwise with the gospel.

>> Speaker: And so building building that bridge.
Now the question becomes on the other
side. I talked about the pastors who who
have a question mark.

>> Speaker: Is there another extreme on the other
side where you're a hip-hop pastor and
you do not appreciate and respect the
history that brought you here? What
about the danger in that direction?

>> Speaker: Oh, that's absolutely a thing as well.
And what I would say is that you know if
in music we have the term if you live by
the hit, you die by the hit. So if all
you are offering people are hit records,

>> Speaker: right?

>> Speaker: When you don't have another hit record,
you're done. And I would say that that
pastors in churches who are leaning so
heavy on just being
uh uh hip and cool and the and and just
leaning into that, you're going to miss
um a generation of people who have
wisdom to offer you who can help you
navigate circumstances. I as a in my 40s
don't want to be in a church where
there's not somebody older than me
currently cuz I got teenagers and I
don't know what I've never been a parent
to a teenager before and they've never
been teenagers before so we got a
conundrum going on.
I need the wisdom of elders to be able
to speak into my life and I don't want
to tell them well y'all just going to
have to figure it out cuz we moving in
this direction. I want to be able to
honor them. I want to be able to to
have, you know, a way to to to bridge
that gap. Uh, you know, my church and my
pastor now, uh, Pastor Lee Jenkins in
Atlanta,

>> Speaker: uh, he does a great job of of creating
an environment where,

>> Speaker: you know, those people he, you know,
he's in in his mid60s feel valued and
appreciated, but then he he understands
that there's a young group of people in
that room as well. And so he finds ways
to to bridge the gap or bring us up to
speak at different points in time. Um
create opportunities for for languages.
Sometimes there's translations that need
to be done during the congregation as
well. But we don't want to throw out the
wisdom and the culture that has shaped
um you know previous generations. We we
need that.

>> Speaker: So this world tour,

>> Speaker: tell me about this world tour.
why it is, what it is, and what you want
the fruit to be because it is.

>> Speaker: That's a great question. Uh, yeah, I'm
going on on a world tour. Uh, I start in
the continent of Africa. I go to
Zimbabwe, Zambia, Kenya, and South
Africa. And, um, we end up in somewhere
in Australia, New Zealand
um, with the states in between. And, and
it's the reconstruction tour. And the
the reconstruction is the heartbeat of
my album and what I want people to walk
away with. Um, a friend of mine went to
Italy recently and he saw the
Michelangelo or the the the the David
statue that Michelangelo built and he
learned that that statue was built from
discarded marble. And um, and that's
really what this tour and this album is
about. It's about saying, "Hey, things
have been discarded. humans have been
discarded, but God wants to reconstruct
with those pieces that maybe the world
has discarded, maybe your family has
discarded. Um, God wants to reconstruct
and rebuild that. And I just want to go
to places around the world and
articulate that in music and in message.
And some of us we'll be celebrating our
reconstruction. Some of us will be uh
mourning and lamenting and in need of
that type of healing. And so that's
that's the aim of the tour. Well, a few
years ago, you went through some tough
times and how how did you get through
it? What was it and how did you walk
through it?

>> Speaker: Yeah, I I experienced a crisis of faith.
I experienced um you know, some serious
depression, some serious uh just
downcast. I used to think depression and
anxiety and all those things was just
like, "Oh, get over yourself." And until
it hit me and I said, "Oh, this is
real." you know, and um and and the way
to get over it was to go through it, you
know, I had to go through it. Um and and
really depend on God in those in those
difficult times. I wrote I I got some
lyrics. You might be surprised. Okay.
I'm just happen to have it. Okay.

>> Speaker: I got some lyrics. This it's on my
album. So I said, "This is the story of
my reconstruction. I was broken and
busted. I was dented and rusted. I was
mad at Christians for a while. Thought
the church was disgusting. But that pain
becomes a license for liquor and
lusting. Who can you trust in if you
don't trust in God? My existence was
just a figment of my feeble mind.
Depressing, living for nothing but your
carnal urges. Intellectuals answered
questions, but it still disturbed me.
But the Holy Spirit was patiently
waiting, nothing forsaken. Started
stirring my faith. It was gentle and
never shaken. A couple podcasts and a
couple pastor's words. I read a couple
books by Lois Tarberg and plenty sermons
by Tony Evans and Charlie Dates. I felt
the Lord showing his grace, showing his
face, and that that that got me through.

>> Speaker: Well, hey, I was glad to be a small part
of a big change. Hello.

>> Speaker: So, if if me sitting across from you was
your younger self, if I'm if I am now
your younger self?

>> Speaker: Yeah.

>> Speaker: What would I be telling your older self

>> Speaker: that was learned in this journey?
So wait, younger me is talking to older
me.

>> Speaker: Yeah. And older you was talking to
young. So So there's a conversation both
ways.

>> Speaker: Older me would say to younger me, well,
first, younger me would say to older me,
"Man, you're still handsome. I love
you." No,

>> Speaker: I I still got it. All right. No. Um,
what I would tell younger me is, um, be
wary
of the self-righteousness that you
carry. You know, because the younger me
had a lot of
biblical and theological
tools and knowledge and and I thought it
made me better than others.

>> Speaker: I thought it made I I'm better than you
cuz I know more and I thought

>> Speaker: a little pride a little pride in that.

>> Speaker: For sure. Okay.

>> Speaker: For sure. Knowing was growing and I know
more than y'all know. Um, I also was a
little arrogant because my audience was
probably far less biblically literate
than I was. And so I was a little
arrogant, a little puffed up. And um,
and I would say, "Hey, you need to learn
a lesson in empathy and humility and and
take that a lot more serious."
Um,
you know, I think I think um I would I
would hope that younger me would uh
would just slow down a little bit. I
say, "Hey, man, you don't have to you
there's no hurry. You know, you're in a
rush and and
you know, there's an urgency with the
message that you bring to the world, but
there's no hurry to like fast forward
and I wish these kids would hurry and
grow up. I wish this I wish I could get
to this place and do this thing." Uh
those would be probably some of the
things I say. And uh younger me,
yeah, I'll probably say, "Man, I hope
you uh
well, man, I I mean, I hope you can
learn from this young zeal that I have,

>> Speaker: you know, the zeal and the hunger and

>> Speaker: the fire." Fire.

>> Speaker: Yeah. Got you.

>> Speaker: Yeah.

>> Speaker: So, legacy,

>> Speaker: um you know, at the time of this
podcast, I'm just about 76. I'm really
getting old. Really? Really, really
really.

>> Speaker: So when you are 76 and you look back
over legacy, what do you want that to
say?

>> Speaker: Yeah.
I heard um
Dr. Crawford Laritz say something one
time and it really stuck out and what he
said was he said, "Legacy
is inheritance is what you leave to
people. Legacy is what you leave in
people." Mhm.

>> Speaker: And and I was challenged by that like,
huh, what do I want to leave in people?
And um and I think for me
it's that it's really I was doing
everything in my possible means
to practice the way of Jesus. And I
would hope that that's what people walk
away with when they're done. I would
hope that people saw said, "Oh, he won
all those awards and did all these
things, but he was so zeroed in on
making sure
that he and others would practice the
way of Jesus would walk in the footsteps
of Christ. I think that would that would
be my my biggest passion. And to be a
bridge uh of faith and culture, I love
to just be that bridge. I I get to to
stand in the gap between people in this
hip-hop world and the church and and
translate the languages for one another
and um and if I could die being that
bridge, I'm I'm a happy man.

>> Speaker: It's been an honor to have you as part
of our podcast. Thank you for blessing
me and others so that their lives based
on God's word can be unbound.

>> Speaker: I appreciate it.